TABLE OF CONTENT

Black IC 171 Buying a Lifestyle 190
Cyberdecks 172 Karma 190
Master Persona Control Program 172 Good Karma 190
Hardening 172 Karma Pool 191
Active Memory 172 Team Karma 191
Storage Memory 172 Quick Matrix Systems 192
Load Speed 172 Determine Base Security Rating 192
1/O (Input/Output) Speed 173 Design System Architecture 192
Cyberdeck Specifications 173 Set Security Classifications 192
Cyberdeck Options 173 Install IC 193
Using Cyberdecks 173 Install Data Values 193
Cyberprograms 174 Game Lethality 194
Persona Programs 174 Shadowrunning 195
Utility Programs 174 Death and Shadowrunning 195
Combat Utilities 175 Creating an Adventure 196
Defense Utilities 175 Awarding Karma 199
Sensor Utilities 175 Reputation 199
Masking Utilities 176 CONTACTS 200
Decking 177 Legwork 200
Movement in the Matrix 177 CRITTERS 214
Perception in the Matrix 177 Powers of the Awakened 214
Tortoises in the Matrix 177 Accident 214
Matrix Combat 178 Alienation 216
Matrix Initiative 178 Animal Control 216
Matrix Actions 178 Binding 217
Matrix Combat 178 Compulsion 217
Persona vs. Persona 179 Concealment 217
Damaging the Target 179 Confusion 217
Avioding Combat 179 Electrical Projection 217
‘EHIND THE SCENES 180 Engulf 217
Dicey Situations 180 Enhanced Physical Attributes 217
Using Social Skills 180 Enhanced Senses 217
Racism and Charisma 182 Essence Drain 217
Using Build/Repair Skills 182 Fear 218
Vehicle Operation Skill 183 Flame Aura 218
Using Knowledge Skills 183 Flame Projection 218
Using Language Skills 184 Guard 218
Using Equipment 184 Hardened Armor 218
Hauling the Load 185 Immunity to Age 218
Perception 185 Immunity to Normal Weapons 218
Diseases and Toxins 186 Immunity to Pathogens 218
Non-Player Characters 187 Immunity to Poisons 218
Threat Ratings 187 Infection 218
NPC Actions 187 Influence 218
Fencing the Loot 188 Magical Guard 219
Finding a Fence 188 Manifestation 219
The Loot 188 Mist Form 219
The Meet 188 Movement 219
Lifestyles of the Rich and Shadowy 189 Noxious Breath 219
Luxury 189 Paralyzing Touch (How!) 219
High 189 Pestilence 219
Middle 189 Petrifying Gaze 219
Low 189 Psychokinesis 219
Squatter 189 Regeneration 219
Streets 189 Search 219
Hospitalized 189 Venom 219
Keeping Up the Payments 189 Weaknesses of Awakened Beings 220

 

4 SHADOWRUN
Allergy
Essence Loss
Reduced Senses
Vulnerability
Cyberware for Critters
Selected Awakened Beings
Banshee
Barghest
Basilisk
Cockatrice
Dracoforms
Elemental Spirits
Eyekillers
Ghosts
Ghouls
Griffin
Harpy
Kraken
Leshy
Merrow
Naga
Nature Spirits
Phoenix
Sasquatch
Shapeshifter
Thunderbird
Unicorn
Vampire
Wendigo
Critter Statistics
GEAR
Personal Weapons
Impact Projectile Weapons
Firearms
Pistols
Submachine Guns (SMGs)
Rifles
Taser Weapons
Heavy Weapons
Firearm Accessories
Ammunition
Explosives
Armor
Surveillance and Security
Vision Enhancers
Communications
Surveillance Measures
Surveillance Countermeasures
Security Devices
Survival Gear
Working Gear
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Electronics
Cyberware
Headware
Bodyware

 

 

Cyberdecks and Programs
Biotech
Slap Patches
Magical Equipment
Vehicles
Ground
Hovercraft
Boats
Aircraft
Milltary and Restricted-Issue Vehicles
Vectored Thrust
Drones
Vehicle Weapons
Rigger Gear

THE MODERN NORTHWEST

Treaty of Denver
Tribal Lands
Tir Taimgire
Other Neighbors
Status of Seattle
Tribes
Salish
Sinsearach
Makah
Cascade Crow
Cascade Ork

SEATTLE

Getting to Seattle
Govemment

Seattle’s Metroplex Guard
Visitor Information

Medical Aid

Legal Aid

Public Datanet

Emergency Services
Getting Around Seattle
Entertainment and Media
Points of Interest

Tribal Holdings

Corporate Holdings

Seattle in the Shadows

DEVELOPER'S NOTES
SOURCEBOOK UPDATES

Street Samurai Catalog
Equipment Table

The Grimoire

Paranormal Animals of North America
Critter Statistics

London Sourcebook

Virtual Realities
Minimum Security Code

Rigger Black Book
Weapon Damage

Shadowbeat

Shadowtech

Updating Adventures

INDEX


swemmecee™ SHADOWRUN SECOND EDITION. "="

6 SHADOWRUN
 

You wanna run the shadows? Then listen, chummer,
learn everything you can, cuz ignorance will kill ya
faster than a fireball.

—Ess El El, Snake shaman

hadowrun Second Edition (SRII) is a revision of the original Shadowrun rules first
published in 1989. Using extensive feedback from players and gamemasters, SRII
has been revised and rewritten for greater clarity and to provide cleaner, faster play.
Players and gamemasters familiar with the first-edition rules will find the heart of
the game unchanged and the changes consistent with the game's existing logic.

The SRII rules contain new material, some clarifying existing material, and some
revising and expanding the rules and information published in sourcebooks like The
Grimoire, Virtual Realities, Rigger Black Book, ShadowTech, and others. These
additions reflect continuing thought and design work on the system. The Sourcebook
Updates section provides notes and rules modifications pertaining to each of the
published sourcebooks/rules supplements for Shadowrun, bringing the informa-
tion in those books into line with the SRII rules. SRIT does NOT make other
Shadowrun products obsolete.

 

SHADOWRUN 7
CHAPTER ONE

 

Watch your back. Shoot straight. Conserve ammo. And
never, ever, cut a deal with a dragon.
—Street proverb

he world is changed, some say Awakened.

A lullin the flow of mystical energies subsided, and magic returned to the world.
Elves, dwarfs, orks, and trolls assumed their true form, throwing off their human
guise. Creatures of the wild changed, too, becoming things of myth and legend.
Modern society fights on, despite the odds, in an effort to assimilate the ways of
magic into a technological world.

The decades that followed the Awakening were years of turmoil, panic, and
chaos, as the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse seemed to race across the Earth.
Primitive cultures that had never lost touch with their mystical past began to use
magic against the great nations that had suppressed them for so long. The vast,
global telecommunications network collapsed under an assault by a mysterious
computer virus. Nuclear missiles were launched, but failed to detonate. Dragons
soared into the skies. Epidemics and famine ravaged the world’s populations.
Clashes between newly Awakened races and the rest of humanity became
common. All central authority crumbled and the world began to spiral down into
a black abyss.

But man and his kin are hearty animals. Out of the devastation and anarchy,
order slowly reemerged. Cybertechnology eradicated the last vestiges of the
computer virus and replaced the old telecommunications network with what
became known as the Matrix. New nation-states of Amerindians, elves, orks, and
dwarfs were formed. Metroplexes, vast city-states, sprawled over the the land-
scape. Central governments were replaced by megacorporations that had become
alaw unto themselves. People who accepted their sovereignty were protected. The
outcasts, dissidents, and rebels were exploited and abused, continuing a condition
that has existed between the weak and the powerful since time began.

 

 

8 SHADOWRUN
ik

SHADOWRUN 9

 
 

Technology, too, has changed people. No longer only flesh,
many have turned to the artificial enhancements of cyberware to
make themselves more than human. Stronger, smarter, faster is the
human of today.

In the world of 2053, the metroplexes are monsters casting
long shadows. And it’s in the cracks between the giant corporate
structures that shadowrunners find their home. When the megacorps
want a job done but they don’t want to dirty their hands, it’s a
shadowrun they need, and they turn to the runners who are the only
ones who can doit. Though a shadowrunner’s existence is not listed
in any governmental or corporate database, the demand for his or
her services is high. She might be a decker, sliding like a whisper
through the visualized databases of giant corporations, spiriting
away the only thing of real value—information. Or perhaps he is a
street samurai, an enforcer for hire whose combat skills and reflexes
make him the ultimate urban predator. Or perhaps he or she is a
magician, possessing an ancient gift, the ability to wield and shape
the magical energies that now surround the Earth.

And that’s exactly the kind of firepower you'll need if you get
hired to make a Shadowrun...

THE WORLD OF SHADOWRUN

The world of Shadowrun, known to denizens of the new age
as the Sixth World, is a place of magic and high technology, a
landscape of danger and mystery, a maze of noble sentiments and
double-crosses. Those who play stand on the edge, in the shadow
of adventure.

Welcome.

Shadowrun is a roleplaying game designed for two to eight
players. Unlike most such games, however, it is open-ended, with
no time limit, specified number of turns to play, or single goal to
reach that ends the game. And unlike most games, there is no
winner and no loser. The object is to have fun with the exercise of
imagination. When this happens, everybody wins.

For those who have roleplaying game experience, some of the
following will be familiar. Those readers may want to skip ahead to
Game Concepts, p. 30, or turn to And So It Came To Pass... and
delve into the history and background of the world of Shadowrun.

For those new to roleplaying, the following is an introduction.
It may not answer all questions or even provide much enlighten-
ment because the roleplaying game is more easily learned from
experienced players than a book. So, absorb what you can, then
seek out others who are already familiar with Shadowrun so you
can learn from them by experiencing it.

AZ

Sa

WHAT IS A ROLEPLAYING GAME?

A good question, but not an easy one to answer. Everyone has
read a book or seen amovie where the lead character does something
that the reader or viewer finds so utterly wrong that he or she wants
to yell out and warn them. But whether the reader calls out or not, it
makes no difference. No matter what we say, the character will do
what the plot demands; we're just along for the ride.

The situation in a roleplaying game is very different. When
roleplaying, the players control their characters’ actions and respond
to the events of the plot. If the player does not want the character to
go through the door, the character will not. If the player thinks the
character can talk him or herself out of a tight situation rather than
resorting to that trusty pistol, he can talk away. The script, or plot, of
a roleplaying game is flexible, always changing based on the deci-
sions the players make as characters.

The person controlling the story is called the gamemaster. His or
her job is to keep track of what is supposed to happen when, describe
events as they occur so that the players (as characters) can react to
them, keep track of other characters in the game (referred to as non-
player characters), and resolve attempts to take action using the
game system. The gamemaster describes the world as the characters
see it, functioning as their eyes, ears, and other senses. Gamemastering
is not an easy task, but the thrill of creating an adventure that engages
the other players, tests both the players’ gaming skills and the
characters’ skills in the game world, and captures the players’
imaginations makes it worthwhile. FASA publishes game supple-
ments and adventures to help this process along, but good
gamemasters always adapt the game universe to suit their own style.

Stories (the adventures) provide the overall plot, a general
outline for what might happen at certain times in reaction to other
events. The story is no more concrete than that until the players
become involved, however. Then, the adventure becomes a story as
involving and dramatic as that great movie you saw last week, or that
great book you stayed up all night to finish. In some ways it’s even
better, because you helped create it.

GETTING STARTED

That's the basic concept. The specifics follow, divided into broad
sections covering each aspect of the game. The opening short story,
Plus Ca Change, provides atmosphere and a taste of the language
and style of Shadowrun. The next chapter talks about how the
Shadowrun world came to be. The rules for how to play the game
begin with Game Concepts, p. 30.

Welcome to the Sixth World, chummer. It’s going to be a heck
of a ride.

 

10 SHADOWRUN
THE YEAR IS 2053

TAULISIOLF9FA

SHADOWRUN 11

 
 

Shadowrun n. Any movement, action, or series of such
made in carrying out plans which are illegal or quasilegal.
—WorldWide WordWatch, 2050 update

ome things change, some don’t. Take the sprawl, for one. On the outside, Seattle
may look like it’s always changin’. But don’t be fooled, chummer. Underneath all
the glitz and the grit, everything’s the same.

It’s like a livin’ thing, the sprawl. A hungry one. No matter how much food and
fuel comes in by port or by highway, or how much data pours in through the Matrix,
Seattle just swallows it all, then opens its gaping maw and screams for more.

People get swallowed up, too. Maybe not the ones who arrive by plane or by
zep, those folks with nuyen to burn and connections to keep ‘em safe. No, it’s the
others I’m talkin’ about. Street meat’s always a hot product in a town with so many
hunters. Like in King Street Station, where the old city and the new blood mix.

Under the shadow of the Renraku Arcology, train and bus lines bring the
newbies into the sprawl. They come followin’ their dreams, or maybe runnin’ from
their nightmares, to find the life they've heard about in the city by the Sound.
There’s the back-country kids from the Native American lands, runaways from
UCAS or California Free State, even elvenkind, rebellin’ against the fantasy-chip life
in Tir Tairngire. They all think Seattle’s a place where magic lives on every corner
and people dance in the shadows.

A lotta them find out that other things live in shadows.

That day I was watchin’ the crowds at King Street for one particular face. A pretty
face, framed in blonde hair, maybe nineteen years old, with a stubborn set to the
jaw that I kinda liked. | had a holo in my pocket ‘puter that put a name to it: Sheila
Winder, late of a corporate enclave in San Francisco, daughter of a mid-to-upper-
level exec couple. Seems she’d told mom and dad where to shove their corp
lifestyle and then jandered out of suit city. When the corp heat questioned her
chummers, they said she'd bugged out for Seattle. That’s how one of Mitsuhama’s

 

 

12 SHADOWRUN
PLUS CA CHANGE

   

 

 

SHADOWRUN 13
PLUS CA CHANGE

Mr. Johnsons happened to send out a call along the vine for some
runners who knew the Seattle shadows.

I spotted her easy enough. The imaging circuitry in my right
eye confirmed the ID. Problem was, someone else picked up on her
at the same time. | figgered he was a gander, out pickin’ up fresh
geese. Maybe a pimp who wanted to expand his stable, maybe a
recruiter for somethin’ nastier. Some places have a high turnover
rate, but the only unemployment their workers collect are death
benefits. This gander was a scrawny guy in along overcoat, movin’
through the crowd, watchin’ the faces, lookin’ for product that
would sell.

He was closer to the girl’n 1 was. | could have gotten to her first,
if I'd cut in the wires that boost my reflexes. But movin’ through a
downtown crowd at 70 kph isn’t the smart thing to do when you
want to avoid undue attention from Lone Star. So | was still a few
dozen meters away when the gander walked right up to Sheila.

The usual drill when a gander moves in on anew goose is some
fast talk and maybe a friendly hand on the suitcase, just helpin’ out,
y understand. This guy's approach was different. He held up one
skinny finger in front of the girl’s face and traced some kinda tricky
pattern. Her big blue eyes went blank and she froze. | froze for a
second, too, hopin’ this wasn’t what it looked like. The girl just
stood there while he picked up her carry-on bag. | had a bad feelin’
about that tricky finger. Fraggit! | hate goin’ up against a wizard.

His back was to me, which was about the only thing that suited
me about this oozin’ drekheap ofa situation. | revved my nervewires;
not much, just enough to let me cover the space between us before
the magician could turn around. Grabbing his neck in one hand and
the girl’s bag in the other, | swung him around in a restricted
kokyunage throw. You do it right, and nobody knows you had
anythin’ to do with the fact that the other guy hits the ground. Hard.

The fall winded him. I'd counted on that. The girl blinked, and
started to take an interest in things again. I'd hoped for that. The
gander-wiz had lost his concentration and the spell he put on her
broke down. | put on my “company” voice, the one | use for Lone
Star cops and corporate Johnsons. “Miss, this place is dangerous. If
you'll come along with me, I'd be happy to escort you to a safer
area.” Well drek, she just looked at me goo-goo-eyed and then at
the little slotter lyin’ on the ground in front of us.

The gander’s overcoat was stiff here and there, where the
armor showed. | was wearin’ one like it myself, only cleaner. Under
the coat, he had on aT-shirt made outta some kind of short gray fur.
Decorations—fetishes, the wizards call ’em—hung down the front.
The prettier ones looked like road-kill with feathers. From his fashion
sense, | figgered I'd come up against some kind of shaman,
probably a Rat man. His eyes were losin’ that glazed expression and
comin’ into focus on me. Not somethin’ | was thrilled about. A
wizard can put a spell on anythin’ he can see, and gander-boy could
see me real good.

| thought about bein’ subtle. Then the wiz pulled one of the
fetishes off his shirt and pointed it at me. | decided it wasn't a good
time for subtle. I stepped in and booted him in the groin. Whatever
spell he had in mind didn’t seem to happen, so | guess | broke his
concentration again.

The direct approach seemed to be workin’ good, so | grabbed
Sheila Winder by the wrist. “Fraggit,” | growled. “C’mon!” She was
either still woozy from the spell or she had an attack of good sense,

“cause she came along nice and quiet as | headed for an exit. That
was good. Carryin’ her probably would've caused talk.

All this took maybe 15 seconds. Meanwhile, back at the shaman,
people were startin’ to notice that some guy was having an acute
attack of somethin’ or other. | let my tongue brush a contact in my
lower left molar. I'd autoprogrammed the phone to dial the right
number as soon as it was tumed on. The mastoid-implant receiver
made it sound like Neddy was right next to me when he answered.

I've got a pickup buried in my Adam's apple, so | muttered to
Neddy while | wormed my way through the crowd with Sheila in
tow. “I got the girl at King Street, but there’s maybe a problem.”

“What sort of difficulty are you experiencing, my nameless
friend?” Neddy always talks like he’s auditioning to be the next Mr.
Dictionary on WordWatch.

“She got picked out by a gander, street shaman, and he tried
to zap her.”

“Zap? Really, now, that’s no help. What kind of spell did he use?”

“Oozin’ drek, Neddy! How the frag do /know? You better get the
others over here. I’m headin’ out onto Jackson...” | got interrupted
as we were leaving the station and tuming onto Jackson Street.

Gander-wiz had back-up along, looked like. The one on the left
made his approach noisy. | was supposed to turn to meet him,
which'd leave his buddy free to take me out from behind. Pivoting to
meet the attack from the left, | slung the girl out of the line of
engagement. That’s when my Ares Wiremaster Audio Enhancers
picked up the gentle scrape of shoe plastic on the pavement. | was
halfway into a mule kick to meet the one coming in from the rear, but
the attack came so fraggin’ fast, | was lucky my spine didn’t snap.

Riding the impact of the blow, I rolled clear of the attack to get
a look at the one who'd tried to draw my attention. It was an ork,
whose hands showed nerve contact pads, the kind they use for
cheap smartgun links that don’t form a dermal circuit. His move-
ment had a slo-mo quality that told me his nerve wires, if he had
any, were slower than mine. His partner—the fast one—was a
human woman. She wasn’t showing any obvious cyberware, but
she matched my moves with a flowin’ speed that screamed
warnings at me. Either she had top-of-the-line body mods, or she
was an adept, someone who uses magic to pull the kind of stunts
the rest of us need cyberware to match.

We shuffled around tryin’ for position. Even without gunplay,
a trio of samurai playing ring around the rosie in this part of town
was going to draw in Lone Star, maybe Renraku security as well, so
we all wanted to get this over fast. Fightin’ under that kind of time
limit is a good way to hose up, and the ork made the first mistake.
He feinted a long kick, then charged in as | retreated. Only my
retreat was faked, too, and | met him with a fist-knee-elbow
combination that dropped him, pukin’, on the sidewalk.

I didn’t have time for a follow-up on the ork because his partner
was coming in. | backpedaled away from a flurry of hand-technique
strikes, blocking like crazy. | threw a counterkick and the adept
back-flipped out of striking range. That bothered me. My move
wasn't enough of a threat for that kind of avoidance. When Sheila
yelled out a warning, | whirled around and decided I'd rather have
dealt with the adept. The Rat shaman was standing about ten
meters away, a fetish in his hand and a nasty look on his face. |
yanked out my Browning MaxPower, but there was no way | could
get off a shot before he cast his spell.

 

14 SHADOWRUN
PLUS CA CHANGE

He shrieked out a couple of words and, honest to Ghost, his
eyes flashed red under the streetlights as a bolt of somethin’
dazzlin’ went off right in my face. My corneal flare compensators
kicked out in the overload, and I was blind. Figgering | was about
to settle an old bet with Neddy about life after death, | was pretty
surprised to discover the gun bucking in my hand as | pumped half
the clip in the direction I'd been facing. Then | waited for my body
to report pain, burns, somethin’.

My vision cleared up instead, showing me what was left of the
shaman scattered all over the sidewalk. Behind me came a voice
whose drawl was familiar. “Loading explosives again, | see. Some-
day, Nameless, you really must try a subtler approach.”

| heard sirens on the streets, gettin’ closer. Neddy could hear
‘em too, but he’s just gotta print out the wisecracks. “I tried subtle,
Neddy. It didn’t work too good, s'right? Now can we get outta here
and over t’yer squat?”

Wizards. Sheesh.

Sheila Winder was staring bemusedly at my business card. It
identified one Nathaniel Edward Fortescue, Doctor of Thaumaturgy.
Perhaps she found this touch of urbanity rather at odds with the
surroundings. My residence, which Nameless regrettably calls a
“squat,” is on the fringes of the Redmond Barrens. In my experi-
ence, the neighbors in a Downtown Militarized Zone like this one

may shoot first and ask questions later if disturbed, but will
generally respect one’s privacy if left to their own pursuits. Admit-
tedly, a regular stipend to the local gang leaders helps to preserve
the quiet life. So does a reputation for dealing summarily with those
who attempt to disturb it.

For someone raised in the sterile environment of an executive-
class corporate enclave, Ms. Winder had received a fairly intensive
introduction to life in the sprawl. During her first five minutes in
Seattle, she had been placed under mind control by a Rat shaman,
observed a duel among three street samurai at close quarters, and
topped the experience off by seeing Nameless blow the shaman
into hamburger.

Her aplomb was still being tested. Sitting in my parlor, she
found herself under the scrutiny of a typically mixed team of shadow
folk. She had adjusted well enough to Nameless and me, both
relatively normal-looking examples of humanity. However, the
other two members of the group hardly fit the corporate standard.
The only metahumans she had seen in her home environment were
a few showcase elves and dwarfs, and the occasional token ork who
had undergone enough cosmetic surgery to preserve the delicate
sensibilities of the neighbors. It seemed an open question whether
she was more fascinated by Iris or Smedley.

Iris is an elf, and I will freely admit that she is one of most
strikingly beautiful women | have ever met, of any race. Popular
culture projects an image of elvenkind as poetic, romantic figures,

 

SHADOWRUN 15
 

and among children of Ms. Winder’s generation, there is an
element of outright idolatry vis-a-vis the elves. The fact that Iris was
dressed in baggy, grease-stained coveralls and wore her silver hair
shaved at one temple to accommodate a set of rigger jacks seemed
to offend the Winder girl's notions of elven ladies.

Smedley, on the other hand, is a troll. One might say he is a troll-
and-a-half, since he stands a hair under three meters tall and tips the
scale at 240 kilograms. His skin is a mass of toughened hide, scars,
and the nodules, commonly miscalled warts, common to his race.

Despite a steady diet of culture shock, Ms. Winder proved a
resilient young lady, and recovered well from the excitement earlier
in the evening. As a matter of fact, she was in better shape than
Nameless. Though I had been able to shield him from the brunt of
the shaman’s last spell, he had suffered several minor wounds in his
duel with the female samurai. Once we were in the van and safely
en route across Lake Washington, | extended my perceptions into
astral space and examined the wounds before healing them. The
traces were faint, but evident to the trained observer. His opponent's
hands had been charged with lethal energy, either the result of a
spell or the inherent power of a physical adept. Either way, the
woman Nameless had fought was formidable...too formidable for
the time and place.

“...and that poses an intriguing conundrum. When we factor
in the presence of a shaman and a physical adept, as well as a
samurai who would have been quite deadly against a less-skilled
opponent than Nameless, it does not add up. The return-on-
investment from a gander operation, randomly picking up waifs
and strays, is simply too low for people of this caliber.

“So we must ask why such high-priced talent singled you out
in a crowd, and pursued you in the face of determined opposition?
To the death, in fact. Who wants you that much, Sheila Winder?”

Her face was impassive. “My parents.. ?”

“I must inform you that we were contracted by your parents,
or their agent, to collect you and ship you back to San Francisco.”

She made a sound halfway between a gasp and a whimper. It
had not occurred to her that our interest in her plight was not altruistic.
“Look, Mr., uh, Fortescue, I’m grateful for your help and all, but I’m
not going back to my folks and their drek-zeck condo, not...”

“Ah, the innocent fervor of youth,” | chuckled, interrupting her.
“No matter how it is expressed, it remains a fixed point in a
changing universe. Plus ¢a change, plus c'est laméme chose.” She
looked blank. | translated. “The more things change, the more they
stay the same.”

“But I’m over eighteen! They can’t make me go back!”

“Doubtless that is one reason that they contracted with private
individuals, rather than having you picked up by Lone Star, who
might have respected your legal rights. Miracles have been known
to happen. But we stray from the topic. Who else might expend a
significant amount of nuyen to gain possession of you, Ms. Winder?”

Her eyes shifted uneasily. “] can’t think of anyone.”

I sighed. Was she telling the truth? Did I dare take the chance
of trusting her unsupported word? In the world of the shadows,
there was only one answer. | reached out and touched her brow.
Before she could react, | breathed a quiet phrase, and entered her
mind. Her will power fought against the intrusion, but though she
was strong, she was only a mundane. | saw what it was to be Sheila
Winder. | was Sheila Winder.

 

CA CHAN

 

l open the bottom drawer of my dresser, and draw out the sleek
casing of the cyberdeck. For a moment, it seems | should be
surprised that it’s a Fuchi Cyber-6. Then | remember the mess of
piddling Matrix runs on ten-yen toys, picking up a little cred here,
a little cred there, until there was enough to pay Skimmer and get
the real thing. Here. In my hands. Ready for a real run.

I pull the connector cable out of its slot and plug it into the
datajack in my temple. Breathe deep. Boot up. The walls of the
pretty, frilly bedroom that is standard issue for adolescent females
in Mitsuhama's San Furanshisuko Enclave, Complex Kantoku-3,
shatter into a myriad of glittering dust motes, and out of the chaos
forms the neon universe of the Matrix.

I've been here dozens of time before, but now I feel a
momentary wave of nausea, as if this were somehow, horribly,
wrong. It passes. It never really happened, did it?

| know the route I want to take. I've mapped the system
schematics a hundred times on Daddy's secure terminal. A crystal
snake, the Silicon Sidewinder, slithers through the data connec-
tions, blending with the flowing pulses of information. All conflicts
resolve. | am Sheila and | am the snake, and I'm hunting.

| glide through the condo’s Majordomo-2045 system, flashing
a faked passcode at the glowing magenta chamberlain-figure at the
SAN, out into the private LTG for Mitsuhama SanFran. The Silicon
Sidewinder turns into the logic probes of an unscheduled prev-
maint run at the central switching office. | flip through the circuit
blocks until | come to the shunt block for secure lines.

My probes dig into the glowing access constructs, and sud-
denly a glistening, night-black humanoid form looms in front ofme.
I display the maintenance ID. It rips my disguise logics away, and
the Silicon Sidewinder shoots forward, sinking digital fangs into the
guardian ice program. | pump attack code into the icon, clogging
its subroutines with conflicting instructions until it crashes. Has it
sounded an alarm? | don't know. Better hurry.

| want the dedicated line to the MCT/SF Credit Union. A few
adjustments there and my deflated credstick will be all fat and
happy. | find a circuit that seems to match the specs | want and
slither into it.

| know this is no local call when | find myself whipping through
the priority assignment dispatcher for a satellite uplink. Where the
frag am I? | could always jack out, start over. If that ice | crashed
didn't puta trace on the line. Drek, every buyer ofa pirate cyberdeck
gets a free bucket of paranoia, and mine has just arrived. Right,
Sidewinder. Sub-zero, girl. Onward and upward.

Time gets sttrrraaannngggeee fffooorrr aaa ssseeecccooonnd
as my response-time stutters over the satellite link, then I’m in a
datastore. A single icon is floating in open cyberspace. One file in
a whole datastore. Looks like pay data. No apparentice. Yeah, right.

I punch up a frame construct. A shimmering golden aura
materializes around the Silicon Sidewinder, then slithers off toward
that lonely, tempting file. A ghost snake, heading for the center of
the datastore.

The space in front of the decoy frame swirls and solidifies into
a shimmering, blue-white dragon form. It gives off dazzling pulses
of radiance, like rapid-fire lightning. The feedback from the frame's
sensors tell me that some of the stories deckers tell are true. This is
black IC. If it engages the real Silicon Sidewinder, it could kill me.
As it is, it rips into the code segments of the decoy frame.

 

16 SHADOWRUN
 

I feel a crazy thrill, echoes of the adrenalin washing through my
meat back in San Francisco, as | whip past the entangled icons of
frame and ice, arrowing for the lonely datafile. The Sidewinder's
fangs bite into the file metrics and data begins pumping down into
my cyberdeck. | run the Fuchi all out, pulling information out of the
Matrix as fast as its bandwidth will let me.

My frame program crashes, its sensors fading from my aware-
ness in a blast of killer instructions from the Lightning Dragon ice.
| swear at the datafile and my fingers back home reach for the
datajack to break the connection that holds me in the Matrix. Just
another second and I can jack out, just another sec...the end-of-file
marker whips down the comm line, completing the download. My
meat fingers tighten on the datajack. And lightning strikes along my
nerves as the IC attacks.

In the Matrix, my programs suspend under the ripping com-
mand structures that flash from the Lightning Dragon into the
Silicon Sidewinder. Back in San Francisco, my fingers hover, twitch-
ing, millimeters from breaking the connection.

The Lightning Dragon rips a piece out of the Silicon Side-
winder, and blood begins to drip from my nose as my blood
pressure shoots up under the lethal biofeedback instructions flood-
ing my cyberdeck, turning its ASIST interface into a machine
programmed to kill me.

I launch a killer program, the Sidewinder’s fangs slashing at the
Lightning Dragon. The IC shifts its addressing to avoid the attack and
another bolt of agony rips into me. I'm thrashing wildly, in panic, the
scales flying off my disintegrating body into an endless void of
cyberspace. Fight! Run! Bite! Jackoutjackoutjackoutjackoutjackout...

| was lying on the floor, my head throbbing dully. The memory
of another's agony echoed in my nerves. Across the room, inside
my skull, | could hear Sheila Winder sobbing uncontrollably. A
calloused thumb peeled back my eyelid and the ceiling lights
lanced in like the bolts that the Lightning Dragon had fired into
my...into Sheila’s...Matrix persona.

I made an inarticulate noise that apparently communicated my
dearest wish, since the thumb was removed. | heard Nameless say
“He’s comin’ round.”

Iris said something in the melodious cadences of Sperethiel,
the so-called elvish language. | recognized some of the more
popular profanities. However, she did switch to English near the
end. “I hope he’s feeling at least half as slotting bad as this poor kid.
What the frag did the drek-sucking sewer-mage doto her anyway?”
Ah, well, Iris never did talk like the stereotypical elf maiden.

I decided that if | was conscious enough to analyze speech
patterns, | was probably capable of sitting up. Or perhaps not?
Come, Fortescue! L 'audace, encore de |'audace, toujours de I'audace.
I sat up. Too late, | recalled the fate of Danton, who had so praised
audacity. Truth to tell, the guillotine seemed preferable. My head-
ache erupted into a torrent of boiling acid, scouring the inside of my
skull, before settling down to a tolerable pool of lava.

The next few minutes were a muddled flurry, with Iris trying to
calm the hysterical Winder girl, while Nameless and Smedley fed
me analgesics. Finally, gll concerned were back to what passed for
normal. | raised my head to face Sheila. She returned my gaze
defiantly.

“Did you find what you were looking for, you fragging
brainraper?” she spat out.

 

 

SHADOWRUN 17
LUS CA

| took a deep breath. “You know what | found, Sheila. You are
a decker. Short on experience, maybe, but talented and fast. You
stumbled, literally, into a high-security database on a central
Mitsuhama system and downloaded a file so hot that Mitsuhama
had it guarded with black IC. And we both know what was init, and
why people were willing to kill to get it. Do you want to tell them?
Or shall 1?”

She held my eyes for a second longer, then her gaze faltered.
In a small voice, she answered, “It was the master algorithm for
system passcodes on all Mitsuhama’s corporate mainframes.”

Nameless broke the silence. “I! hate ta be the doofus, but what
the frag is so hot about this algorithm?”

It was Smedley who answered. “It’s da key to all da passcodes
MCT has online. More’n dat, if you got da master algorithm, you kin
figger out all da passcodes dat dey can have on der systems. Only
way MCT can get around ya is if dey code a new algorithm and
recompile ever’ program dey got onna Matrix.”

Iris chimed in. “I’m only guessing, but a job that big is going
to take MCT a week to ten days. They have to design and test the
new algorithm, then do the loads. It has to be a secure operation,
or else they compromise the new code, and they're right back
where they are now.” She turned to the girl sitting beside her on the
sofa. “When did you pull off this datasteal, Sheila?”

The girl and | answered in unison. “Three days ago.” That
earned mea glare from Iris, as ifto ask how long my name had been
Sheila. | rubbed my temples. Deep mind probes can be damnably
disorienting.

Sheila continued speaking. “I knew that !f any of that ice had
ID'd me, or even traced back to my folks’ condo, then corp-heat
would be looking for me real fast. So | went out the door as soon
as | could stand up. I thought, I...well, Seattle is supposed to be the
place for hot data. | swapped my corporate credstick for enough
scrip to buy a bus ticket and you know the rest.” She seemed close
to tears again. Iris laid a comforting hand on her shoulder.

“Based on the welcoming committee that met you at the bus
station, I think we have to assume Mitsuhama knows you have this
data,” Iris said. “Their system vulnerability is at its peak now, with
decreasing exposure as they migrate the new security subsystems
through the Matrix. By this time next week, they won't give a frag
who has Sheila's datasteal. But between now and then, they're
going to move heaven and earth to get it, and her, back.”

I stood up, gingerly, then walked over to Sheila's bag, slung
carelessly in a corner of the room. | unzipped the case, reached
inside, and pulled out the sleek shape of her cyberdeck.

“This contains the only copy of the download,” I said. It was not
a question. “Data valuable enough to make us rich, or to bring about
our demise. Perhaps both. It’s the key to your life and freedom, dear
lady. | think | see a solution to our mutual dilemma. But it hinges on
you, Sheila.”

The girl...no, she had left childhood behind these three days
past...the woman reached out to run her fingers over the smooth
plastic casing of the deck. Our hands touched briefly. Mine were
steady. So were hers. She smiled.

“So, what’s the scam, Neddy?”

| walked along the waterfront as the morning sun warmed
Seattle’s misty sky to a light gray. The foggy light reminded me of
home, and | was surprised to find a lump in my throat. Brace up,
Sheila, you're a big, bad shadowrunner now. Or at least, you might
be if you survive the next few hours.

Neddy had called Mr. Johnson to report that they'd found the
poor little runaway. He had also hinted that he was more than alittle
ticked off by the fracas at King Street last night. Mr. Johnson claimed
he didn’t know anything about it.

Anyway, the deal is that | was supposed to wait in Waterfront
Park, at 0700, and MCT security would come get me. After the
pickup, Mr. Johnson would arrange payment for the shadowrunners,
like always.

According to Neddy, I’d seen the error of my ways and just
wanted to go home. | kept expecting to hear the strains of
“Somewhere Over the Rainbow” during Neddy’s pitch to Mr.
Johnson on the trid. When | said that, afterward, | got blank looks
from everybody but Smedley, who rolled around on the floor
hooting with laughter and bellowing, “There's no place like home,”
over and over, for at least a couple of minutes.

Everybody pretended they didn’t know anything about
datasteals, or corporate killers, or passcode algorithms.

At 0650, Iris’ van had driven up Alaskan Way and stopped at
Pike Street. It being just after sunrise on a Sunday morning, there
was hardly any traffic. | got out and the van drove away, up Pike. |
walked into the park until | came to the seawall. And waited.

At0700, a boxy little car, an Allegra or an Americar, something
totally suit and forgettable, drove up on Alaskan and stopped. Three
people in Mitsuhama uniforms got out. Two of them | didn't
recognize. The third, the one wearing officer's epaulets, was the
woman who'd fought with Nameless outside the station.

Okay. Yeah, | started to get scared. More scared than | already
was, I mean. She was so fast, and when she hit Nameless, her hands
had just ripped through cloth, and skin, and even his armor. | wasn't
wearing any armor. | couldn’t help thinking what her hands would
do to me.

They walked toward me. | waited until they were about 20
meters away, then | pulled the Fuchi out from under my coat and
held it where they could see it. They stopped.

“This is what you really want,” | said. “Not me, just the file. So,
can't you, like, take it, and leave me here? Or | can trash it, toss it
into the water, right now, and then it can't give you any trouble.”

The woman answered. “Sheila, we don’t want any trouble for
you, either. You're smart, you know how it is. We need to ask you
a few questions, just to make sure no one else got a copy of the file.
Honest, honey, nobody’s mad at you. Why, the company needs
computer wizards like you. Just come with us, we'll take your
statement, and then...well, Sheila, your folks are worried about
you. They miss their daughter. | promise, honey, | will personally
make sure you see them again.”

Dammit. Even though I already knew, | teared up when she
said that. Iris had warned me last night. | didn't want to listen, but
she made me. We'd used the passcode algorithm to access the
security computers back in San Francisco. With the codes, | could
hack open the hardest file locks they had. Even the Code Red files.
Even the ones with the entries that said my parents had died under
interrogation two days ago.

 

18 SHADOWRUN
PLUS CA CHANGE

Knowing what the damn company had done, and yes, my own
guilty rage about it, made the next step easier. “O.K., officer. You
want the deck? Here it is.” | pushed the boot button and threw it at
them, as | dove flat to the ground.

She was fast. She realized what was coming and jumped away.
One of the two men just stood there. The other reached out and
caught the deck. He had it
figured out, too, and tried to
sling it back, at me, at the
water, | don’t know.

It blew up in his hands.

| lifted my head from the
sidewalk. | saw the security
officer who'd grabbed the
deck lying in the grass. There
was blood everywhere. The
other man was still standing
there, smiling. Some kind of
magic shield flickered around
him, where it had stopped
the explosion from hurting
him. The woman had rolled to
her feet. She had a scrape
mark on one cheek, but be-
sides that she didn’t look hurt
at all.

She looked at the man
on the grass, then she looked
at me. She didn’t say any-
thing. She didn’t have to.
She just came at me, almost
faster than | could see. She
was maybe three steps away
when a dripping wet shape
vaulted over the sea wall and
hit her with both feet. She
flew back halfa dozen meters.

Nameless grinned at
her: “S'right, chummer.
How’s about you’n me go
round an’ round again?”

It was like she flickered.
One moment she was on the ground, the next she was on her feet.
“You've been living on borrowed time, vat boy,” she said.

| saw the wage mage point a finger at Nameless. Black fire
flared out at the samurai, but something seemed to suck the flames
up, afew centimeters from his body. The magician stopped smiling.
He looked around frantically, trying to spot where the protection
spell had come from.

Nameless and the adept were just two blurs. Neither of them
even tried to use a gun. Some kind of honor thing, | guess, like the
bushido drek they crammed into us at school. If I'd had a gun, and
even a chance in hell of hitting her, I'd have been blasting away at
the adept for all | was worth.

Suddenly, the wage mage stiffened, and started making
passes with his hands. His eyes were closed, like he was fighting
something in his sleep. He grabbed something | couldn't see off his

 

lapel, and threw it away. There was a puff of dust in mid-air, like
something small had just turned to smoke. A second later, his head
exploded, and | heard the crack of a rifle shot.

Later on, | found out that Neddy had attacked some kind of
magic thing that the wage mage was using to keep a force field
around himself. If the mage hadn't thrown it away, Neddy says he
would've been able to make
aspell “ground to manifesta-
tion” through the focus. But
once the magician lost his
force field, he was vulner-
able to Smedley’s sniper rifle.
End of that story.

The fight between
Nameless and the adept was
a stalemate, both of them
now bleeding from a couple
of bad wounds. They'd even
slowed down to where |
could see the moves they
were using, all of them a lot
more advanced than any-
thing | ever learned for the
self-defense merit badge in
the corporate Scouts.

So | don’t know what
the name of the move was
that Nameless used. All |
know is that one moment
the two fighters were going
after grips on each other, and
the next, the adept was on
the ground, with her head at
an angle that necks don’t
allow unless they're broken.

Nameless stood there
for a minute, looking down
at the body. Then he came
over to where | was still lying
on the ground. “Howzitgoin’
for ya, Winder?” he asked. |
started to say | was fine, then
found myself leaning on his shoulder, bawling like a baby.

We got out of the area fast, before any follow-up from
Mitsuhama could arrive. The next few days are going to be pretty
busy. Iris says she’s going to introduce me to a decker she knows,
and that the two of us are going to be visiting a lot of Mitsuhama
financial systems while those passcodes are still valid.

We've already taken care of one piece of business. Every
reference to Sheila Winder, SIN 8452-523-09945, has been wiped
out of the MCT databases. The corporate system has also issued a
dossier recall on that SIN to the national databanks. So | guess Sheila
Winder is dead. But Sidewinder is doing fine, thanks.

In one day, all the rules | thought I knew, changed. But it’s still
the same world, the same me. Maybe it’s like Neddy said. The little
stuff changes, but the real stuff, that’s forever. Plus ¢a change?
Works for me.

 

SHADOWRUN 19
CHAPTER THREE

 

Walking the beat those first couple of months was bizarre.
You never knew if your partner was going to suddenly
grow fangs.

—Pat Mifflin, retired police officer

oday, in 2053, the world is radically different from that of our great-grandfathers.
Where once powerful nations dominated the globe, threatening each other with
sudden nuclear annihilation, many smaller, autonomous nations exist, and corpo-
rations have taken over the superpowers’ once-immense authority. Our science
and technology, too, set us apart, with current levels making previous advances
look like a child’s experiments with a science kit.

But that is not all that divides our age irrevocably from the past, for magic has
emerged again on Earth and we live in an Awakened world.

 

RISE OF THE MEGACORPS

It all began in the late 1990s as the civil unrest that marked the end of the
millennium intensified. Alarmed at the state of social and political affairs, the
corporations feared to trust their interests to indifferent or, in their eyes, incompe-
tent governments. Beginning with holdings in Third World countries, where they
felt the most immediately threatened, corporations armed their security personnel
with the finest available equipment and hired professional mercenaries on both
long- and short-term contracts. As the tide of civil disobedience and urban violence
began to engulf every nation on the globe, the corporations began transferring their
paramilitary assets wherever needed. The stage was set.

In 1999, food riots in New York City created the flash point. Frightened and
angry about a three-month truckers’ strike that had stopped the flow of fresh foods
into New York, the people took to the streets. Hundreds were killed and thousands
injured as violence spread through the city.

 

20 SHADOWRUN
AND SO IT CAME TO PASS...

j
1
Ae

SHADOWRUN 21

 
AND SO IT CAME TO PASS...

At one point, a mob attacked a Seretech Medical Research
truck hauling wastes, including infectious materials. In what be-
came a running gunfight, Seretech security came to the aid of the
corporate truckers, withdrawing them to one of the firm’s medical
research facilities. More violence followed as the maddened crowd
stormed the building. By dawn, 20 Seretech employees were dead
and 200 rioters lay lifeless on the grounds and in the street.

In an attempt to crush the growing corporate armies, the city,
then the state and federal governments charged Seretech with
criminal negligence. Seretech asserted that in defending their truck
from the mob they had prevented its potentially lethal cargo from
infecting the population at large. In alandmark decision (The United
States v. Seretech Corporation (1999)), the Supreme Court upheld
Seretech’s right to maintain an armed force for the protection of its
own personnel and property, and commended the corporation for
protecting innocent citizens and honoring its trust to dispose of
contaminated materials safely. The case set a precedent that led to
the Shiawase Decision of 2001 (The Nuclear Regulatory Commis-
sion v. The Shiawase Corporation), firmly establishing the extrater-
ritoriality of multinational corporations in international law by
giving them the same rights and privileges as foreign governments.

More disasters followed. In 2004, Libya unleashed a chemical-
weapons attack against Israel. The Israelis responded with a nuclear
strike that destroyed half of Libya’s cities. Then, in 2005, a major
earthquake hit New York City, killing more than 200,000 people and
leaving more than 200 billion dollars worth of damage in its wake. It
would be 40 years before the city had rebuilt fully, with the help of
corporate guidance and funds. In the meantime, the United Nations
moved to Geneva and the East Coast Stock Exchange to Boston.

The following year, Japan asserted its position as a world power
by announcing the creation of the new Japanese Imperial State and
deploying the first of a fleet of solar-powered collector satellites to
beam microwave energy to receptors on the Earth’s surface. With
this relatively cheap method of distributing power to isolated
regions, Japan began to make strong inroads into the Third World.

RESOURCE RUSH

With their new freedom, the corporations of North America
increased their exploitation of the continent's resources with a
vengeance. In what the media dubbed “the Resource Rush,”
corporate coalitions demanded and were granted access to oil,
mineral, and land resources on federal lands. In the years 2002-8,
the government invoked the right of eminent domain again and
again to bring property under its control, only to license its
exploitation to a corporate sponsor. Taking the brunt of this land-
grab were the Indian reservations and federal parklands.

Conservationists and Indian-rights groups expressed their
shock and disgust, though corporate influence and paramilitary
power made it dangerous to object. Angry and frustrated, the more
radical elements founded the Sovereign American Indian Move-
ment (SAIM), whose roots traced back to the Indian-rights struggles
of the twentieth century.

The growing tensions and hatred finally erupted in 2009. On
May 5, United Oil Industries announced that it had acquired the
right to exploit the petrochemical resources in one-quarter of the
remaining federal parks and one-tenth of the Indian lands, which

the government had just confiscated. The SAIM reacted immedi-
ately. A small band entered the U.S. Air Force's Shiloh Launch
Facility in northwest Montana, capturing a missile silo. To this day,
no one knows how the raiders managed to bypass the security
patrols, but once inside the missile silo, they met up with John
Redbourne, a USAF major and a full-blood Dakota Sioux. After
knocking his partner unconscious, Redbourne used the man’s keys
and codes to unlock the launch fail-safes.

THE LONE EAGLE

Issuing a demand for the return of all Indian land, the Shiloh
raiders threatened to launch the facility's missiles. Ten days of tense
negotiations ended when a black-garbed Delta Team invaded the
silo. During the struggle, which resulted in the death of all the
occupying Indians, a single Lone Eagle intercontinental ballistic
missile carrying four MIRVed five-megaton warheads launched.

NORAD command in Cheyenne Mountain watched helplessly
as the missile headed for the Russian Republic. All their auto-
destruct signals went unheeded, and the military had no intercep-
tors in position to down the bird. Though denying responsibility for
the launch, President Jesse Garrety informed Moscow of the targets
of each of the missile’s multiple warheads, hoping to avert a full-
scale retaliation by giving the Russians enough warning to use their
semi-secret ballistic defenses to stop the missile.

Moscow was understandably skeptical of Washington's claims
that the Lone Eagle launching was an isolated accident and not a
trick for making a surgical strike against selected Russian targets.
They put their forces on full alert and ordered citizens of the
Commonwealth of Independent States to shelters. Meanwhile, in
the United States, the public was unaware that it was perilously
close to nuclear war.

President Garrety waited anxiously, and as later revealed in the
celebrated “back-room tapes,” he alternately wept, ranted, and
prayed. A short time later, Russian President Nikolai Chelenko
tersely informed Garrety that the warheads had been stopped. A
privately conducted stress analysis of Chelenko’s voice later indi-
cated only a 79 percent probability that he spoke the truth, but
neither seismic nor space-based sensors recorded any nuclear
explosions at that time. Explosion or not, there was definitely fallout
from the incident.

THE BLAME FALLS

When the American public learned of the Lone Eagle crisis, the
outcry was enormous. Goaded by corporate propagandists, the
people began to blame SAIM, and by implication, all Native
Americans. This fit well with the larger plans of the megacorporations,
principally United Oil Industries, which was not satisfied with the
pace of its mineral-asset acquisition. By 2010, the corporations had
pressured the government to pass the Re-Education and Relocation
Act, originally introduced late in 2009. This new law called for the
confinement of anyone connected in any way to SAIM. Abuses of
the law were rampant because of the general hatred of Indians.
Thousands of innocent Native Americans were sent to concentra-
tion camps, euphemistically called “re-education centers.” Among
those shipped to the Abilene camp was a man named Daniel

 

22 SHADOWRUN
 

Coleman, future Prophet of the Great Ghost Dance and the first war
shaman of the Native American Nations. History remembers him as
Daniel Howling Coyote.

In a governmental economy measure, Congress soon con-
tracted out management of the re-education camps to the corpo-
rations. As the camps gradually dropped out of the media spotlight,
overcrowding, poor sanitation, and insufficient medical care began
to plague the inmates. Was this a deliberate plan of genocide, as
Coleman would one day claim? In one of the great ironies of history,
however, the isolation of many tribes in the re-education camps
spared them from the scourge that hit the world in 2010.

TRIBULATIONS

Virally Induced Toxic Allergy Syndrome (VITAS) broke out first
in New Delhi, but within weeks, cases were being reported all over
the globe. In the worst epidemic since the Black Plague, a significant
percentage of the world’s people were dead or dying by the end of
2010. Most fatalities were in outlying areas where medical care was
unavailable or in high-population centers where supplies of medi-
cines and interim vaccines were insufficient. China, India, many
African nations, and many densely populated Third World cities
suffered disproportionately because their medical delivery systems
could not provide adequate symptomatic relief.

Tragic as the VITAS plague was, it was only the beginning of
unprecedented chaos. Beginning with the violent dissolution of the
Mexican governmentin January 201 1, more governments fell in the
next five years than in any similar span in history. Famine stalked the
world, adding to the already-lengthy rolls of the dead. Massive
civilian protests led to raids on European nuclear power plants,
three of which suffered meltdowns. Radiation fallout was extensive
and damaging.

THE AWAKENING

It was uncanny. They just ignored us, but it was
more like they never heard a word we said. | thought it
might have been the thunder that was drowning out the
loudspeaker, but my boss didn’t agree. He decided to
make good his threat to fire if they didn’t stop. | was
scared, though, what with the spooky way them Injuns
was acting. When the others started firing, | did, too.

But the Injuns just kept walking. And that Coleman
fella was kinda like glowing. I know the scientists say it
was just a trick of the light, some kind of reflection from
the lightning. | still swear I hit him clean two or three
times, but he just kept on walking.

When they got to the gate, which had blown open
in the wind, they just waltzed right on out. We didn’t go
after them that night 'cause of the storm. Next morning,
we couldn’t find a trace. It was really weird.

—Testimony given before the Abilene Official In-
vestigating Commission, by Harry Wood, a guard at the
Abilene Re-education Center on December 24, 2011

 

On the heels of VITAS came the frightening phenomenon later
named Unexplained Genetic Expression, or UGE. All over the
world, mutant and changeling children were being born to “nor-
mal” parents. Newsweek dubbed these UGE children “elves and
dwarfs,” and it seemed that the Apocalypse had finally arrived. The
year 2011 is now remembered as the Year of Chaos.

With miracles and calamities being reported in every nation,
religions rose and died. Prophets appeared, proclaiming the end of
the world. One of these emerged from the despair of a re-education
camp. On December 24, at the same moment that hundreds of
Japanese witnessed the first appearance of the great dragon Ryumyo
as they sped past Mount Fuji on a bullet train, the Prophet of the
Great Ghost Dance, Daniel Howling Coyote, led his followers out of
the Abilene Re-Education Center.

By then, there was no question: magic had returned to the
world.

THE SIXTH WORLD

What is known as the Year of Chaos was actually the end of the
old age and the beginning of the new, the dawn of the Awakened
world. Some mystics point to the Mayan calendar as an authority,
noting that it predicts the start of a new cycle of humanity on
December 24, 2011. They also say the appearance of the dragon
Ryumyo is the signpost marking what the Mayans called the
emergence of the Sixth World.

Had they done better research, these dreamers would have
discovered that the Mayans also predicted a world-destroying
calamity that would herald the birth of a new, improved race of
humans. Where were these signs and events? It is true that the
world faced trials, disasters, and great change, but it is not a new
world. It’s still good, old Mother Earth, even if she has entered a
new phase.

A better model of the change is the historical shift from B.C. to
A.D. No one alive at the time knew it had happened. Only hindsight
revealed it. Even the calendar had to be backdated to take into
account the change.

THE DANCE

For years after Daniel Coleman led his cadre of believers out
from the Abilene REC compound, he dropped from public view.
Information on his activities during that period is minimal, but he
was, most certainly, proselytizing. Among Native Americans—
those still free as well as those incarcerated in camps or restricted
to the ever-shrinking reservations—word spread of a new prophet,
a great shaman to whom the spirits had taught a powerful dance.

This inspired Native Americans to resist the tyranny of their
existence. Many more escaped the camps, eluding the federal and
corporate hunters by fleeing into the wilderness. Like their ances-
tors, they began a guerrilla war against an army that wanted to
destroy them. Unlike their ancestors, they had access to the same
technology as their enemy, and more.

In 2014, Daniel Coleman stepped out of the shadows. He
called himself Howling Coyote and declared that he was a shaman
of the Ghost Dance. Backed by an elite core of fanatics, he
announced the formation of the Native American Nations (NAN), a

 

SHADOWRUN 23
AND SO IT CAME TO PASS...

| heard the words of the prophet when he sat with
us around a medicine fire three winters ago. He was a
strong man, powerful in body as well as spirit. | was afraid
of him.

His words were strong, too. He spoke of a new
Ghost Dance—a Great Ghost Dance. This time, he said,
the magic would work. Unlike the dance our ancestors
performed, this one would shatter the oppressive yoke
of the white man. He told us that the old prophets had
been partly right. Their vision had been clouded, and
they had not seen the time for the dance. The world was
not yet ready then, but now the time had come.

His eyes were bright when he spoke those words,
and | believed him.

In the morning, he was gone from our hidden camp,
but he remained in our hearts.

—Arthur Redshoulder, in an interview with reporter
Sheila Eckolds, broadcast in 2015

 

coalition of tribes with the Sovereign Tribal Council at its head. They
laid claim to all of North America and demanded the immediate
withdrawal of all persons of European, African, and Asian ancestry,
threatening dire magical retribution if the demand was not met. Of
course, the media tried to make a laughingstock of Coleman and his
followers. Though magical phenomena had become increasingly
commonplace, no one believed any group of persons could enforce
such a threat.

Jokes of ridicule were still making the talk-show circuit when
Howling Coyote and his Ghost Dancers demonstrated their power.
In 2014, Redondo Peak erupted, burying Los Alamos, New Mexico
under a cloud of ash. Howling Coyote appeared in a vid-cast from
a nearby Zufi reservation. He claimed credit for invoking “our
Mother Earth to punish the children who forsook Her.”

Surviving documentation indicates that the U.S. government
did not take the claim seriously, except to capitalize on an oppor-
tunity to capture the elusive resistance leader and smash his
growing movement. Within an hour of Howling Coyote’s broad-
cast, a federal reaction force, composed of the Sixth Air Cavalry
Battalion from Fort Hood, Texas, was in the air. The helicopters and
support aircraft never reached the Zufii reservation, however. All
were destroyed by the sudden appearance of violent tornadoes.
When a second force arrived, the self-proclaimed shaman was long
gone.

The guerrilla war went on, to the great embarrassment of the
federal and corporate forces, who seemed unable to see or touch
their prey. While frustration mounted in the government, it became
harder to enforce news blackouts, and official denials wore increas-
ingly thin. Finally, someone leaked the whole story, and it rocked
the government, with President Jesse Garrety forced to take the
heat.

That same year, international turmoil and change continued as
the Free Republic of Ireland was established and the white-con-
trolled government of South Africa finally dissolved completely.

 

THE INDIAN QUESTION

Amid the storm of criticism, Garrety was assassinated in late
2016, followed shortly by the assassinations of Russian President
Nikolai Chelenko, Prime Minister Lena Rodale of Great Britain, and
Minister Chaim Schon of Israel. The assassins of Chelenko, Schon,
and Rodale were ultimately killed in violent confrontations. William
Springer, the men identified as Garrety’s assassin, was never
captured.

William Jarman, the new U.S. president, issued the now-infa-
mous Executive Order 17-321 immediately upon taking office. One
month later, Congress ratified it with the Resolution Act of 2016. The
corrupt government had sanctioned Jarman’s plan to resolve “the
Indian question”: total extermination of all Native American tribes.

While the government huddled with the megacorporations to
plan their strategy, Howling Coyote’s people had quietly begun
their own solution to the “Indian question.” It is now known that the
Great Ghost Dance began in 2017, as men and women of the tribes
all across the continent performed the ritual that Howling Coyote
had taught them. They sang his songs and chanted his chants. Their
power grew.

When the government moved to implement the Resolution
Action of 2016, several months of freak weather and other uncanny
disturbances disrupted military bases and supply dumps assigned
to the plan. With each new delay, the president sacked another
general, but refused to commit his forces piecemeal. By August 17,
2017, the government had finally managed to assemble its troops,
and the operation began to roll.

That morning, at 10:32 A.M. Pacific Standard Time, Mount
Hood, Mount Rainier, Mount St. Helens, and Mount Adams all
erupted in cataclysmic fury. Mother Earth had announced whose
side she was on, and even the most skeptical became believers.

TREATY OF DENVER

Chastened and wary, the federal governments of the United
States, Canada, and Mexico sent representatives to Denver to
negotiate with the Ghost Dancers in 2018. Three months later, they
had hammered out the Treaty of Denver.

In the treaty, the three governments acknowledged the sov-
ereignty of the Native American Nations (NAN) over most of
western North America. The document outlined a ten-year popu-
lation adjustment plan that would relocate all non-Indians off lands
belonging to NAN. Provisions included the establishment of reser-
vations for non-tribal peoples and corporations, the maintenance of
certain cities (such as Seattle) as extraterritorial extensions of the
governments that had formerly claimed that land, and the retention
of most of the state of California by the United States. Denver itself
was set aside as the “Treaty City,” under joint administration by the
signing parties.

No one was happy with the Treaty of Denver, but no one had
a better solution. The magical capacity of NAN offset the nuclear
capacity of the three North American nations, which is why they
agreed to give away large portions of their land and wealth. Though
the Native Americans had not achieved their goal of removing all
others from their homelands, they had regained control over much
of those lands.

 

24 SHADOWRUN
Howling Coyote was named the head of the Sovereign Tribal
Council, the NAN governing body. Though he found it difficult to
mediate among the bickering that now began to erupt among the
various factions, Howling Coyote was probably the only man who
could still rally the loyalty of all sides.

While the Tribal Council struggled with intemecine problems,
the people of the United States experienced a new shock of horror
when the spaceplane America disintegrated in orbit. The wreckage
landed in Australia, killing 300 citizens of the small town of Longreach.

Also in 2018, the first-generation ASIST (Artificial Sensory
Induction System) technology was created by Dr. Hosato Hikita of
ESP Systems, Inc. in Chicago. While the entertainment industry
went wild exploiting the commercial aspects of “simsense,” other
researchers saw the technology as a key to containing the data
explosion.

GOBLINIZATION

On April 30, 2021, a totally inexplicable phenomena began.
All over the world, one out of every ten men and women suddenly
metamorphosed into hideous humanoid shapes. For some, the
process was short and mild. Others spent days or weeks in the
hospital. Some recovered, while others died screaming in agony.
In those horrible weeks, two new races of humans were emerging
like strange spring flowers under the Awakened sun.

“Goblinization” was the name the media gave to this seem-
ingly catastrophic process, which was but another threshold point
in the reemergence of magic. Researchers had their own names for
it, mostly polysyllabic mouthfuls or strings of consonants standing
in for strings of seemingly unconnected words. Whatever the name,
the result was the same. No race or ethnic group was spared as 10
percent of the world’s population became what were soon dubbed

The Matrix is acomputer-generated, symbolic rep-
resentation of the grid, the world information network.
Instead of dealing with messy manual commands and
procedures, the cyberdeck lets the user perform appar-
ently real actions in cyberspace and then translates
these into system operations. A person in the Matrix
reaches out and touches the symbol representing a file.
The deck’s software knows that the user wants to open
that file. The machine performs all of the complicated
microtronic operations, freeing the user from the te-
dious task of having to enter those commands manu-
ally. Matrix imagery is imposed on the user by the grid
in a “consensual hallucination,” to use Dr. Hikita’s term.
It’s no more an ultimate reality than an animated vid-
chip. These are computer-generated, graphic images.
The systems and the functions those images represent
are real, but the images are just that. They have no
reality.

—Dr. William Spheris, in an interview on the trideo
program, People to People, broadcast June 12, 2049

 

 

 

“orks” and “trolls,” projecting dark dreams of goblins onto the
physical changes the victims suffered.

Most of these unfortunates were traumatized by the experi-
ence. And if they were not, their loved ones were. Some accepted
the media's name for them as license to act like the ghouls and
goblins of legend, with many incidents of violence.

Had it ended there, surely the psychological wounds would
have healed in time. But some “normal” children also began to
change as they grew older, joining the ranks of the so-called orks
and trolls. These either grouped with their own kind or mated with
great-hearted souls who could see past the physical shells. The
offspring of such unions were sometimes normal and sometimes
produced the new racial types. Not all the “normal” children
remained that way, however. Many suddenly underwent
goblinization at puberty, and the awful trauma and its associated
maladjustments cycled again through the community.

UGE, goblinization, and the violence it spawned consumed the
people of Earth for much of the next year. Where the color of men’s
skins had once been the great barrier, the people of Earth now
began to hate and fear the new “races,” the emerging elves, dwarfs,
orks, and trolls. In the year 2022, race riots wracked the globe on
a scale never before seen. In the turmoil, new nations emerged
when states split from parent countries or coalesced out of two or
more units. In the North American sphere, the most important of
these were an independent Quebec and the newly formed Carib-
bean League.

 

SHADOWRUN 25
 

The U.S. government declared martial law for several months
ina futile attempt at control, while reports trickling out of Russia and
others in the Commonwealth of Independent States told of death
on a massive scale. In fear for their lives, many of the changed
beings went into hiding, whether underground, into the wilder-
ness, or in communities of their own kind.

As the year drew to a close, however, another specter more
gruesome than any ork or troll raised its head as a new wave of the
VITAS plague swept the planet. While more of the world’s popula-
tion fell before the onslaught, racial violence flickered out, leaving
both human and metahuman reunited in fear.

It was in this grim year that Data, an electronic news magazine,
first coined the term “Awakened” for the metahumans and other
lifeforms recently come into being.

Sometime during the big troubles in the ‘teens,
people started doing magic. It’s possible that magic
existed before then, but it was unreliable. Now it worked
every time you did it right. During those years of chaos,
magic and magicians became part of modern life.

Some scientists have trouble dealing with the fact of
magic. On one hand, they cannot deny that there is
something that does all these things, but they are
unwilling to believe it’s “magic.” No matter how they try
to fit magic into their scientific model of reality, magic
seems to break most of the laws of physics, as they apply
to observed phenomena in the normal continuum—in
other words, what you and I call “the real world.” Other
scientists posit that magic uses a form of energy simply
not relevant to the physical laws of our universe, and thus
the descriptive mathematics of the theoretical physicist
does not apply.

Magic has been defined as the art and science of
causing change in conformity with the will. The key
words are “art and science.” Magic operates by strict
laws within its own frame of reference, and therefore
may be considered a science. Yet, it is also an art because
only a living mind can make it work. Like all arts, magic
uses emotion and willpower to open the doors of
consciousness. Thus, one must be a poet as well as a
mathematician to deal with theoretical thaumaturgy. A
touch of sheer insanity seems to help, too.

This may be a bitter pill for the more materialistic
researchers to swallow, but it is also why our laboratories
have no “magicometers.” It is why no spellcasting
programs run on our most sophisticated computers, and
why no batteries of magical energy power our cars or
appliances. The only machine able to wield magic re-
mains the living mind of a magician.

—from “Observations Toward a Theory of Somatic
Mutation and Psionic Developments,” a paper pre-
sented by Dr. Randall Grant, AAAS Conference, 2038

 

THE RISE OF MAGIC

Though humanity was suffering through another devastating
crisis, science and technology marched on. In 2024, the first
simsense entertainment unit (a kind of sensory VCR) became
available. The unit offered the user rudimentary sense impressions
with full awareness that the experience was a simulation. Also in
this year, the experimental “remote-vote” system was used in the
U.S. presidential election for the first time. President Jarman was
reelected by landslide victories in urban centers, though the oppo-
sition claimed fraud. Meanwhile, the NAN relocations continued in
a relatively peaceful manner despite continued provocation by the
hostile Jarman White House.

In 2025, magic joined the ranks of science at last, when UCLA
gave it academic recognition by establishing the first undergraduate
program in occult studies. Within two years, technical magic pro-
grams and magical research facilities were established at Texas A &
Mand MIT, with the latter adding “& M” to its name (for “and Magic’).

While the study of magic was a breakthrough into the astral
realm, secret government research was making explorations into
another mysterious world: the electronic one. In 2026, the first
cyberspace travelers were taking halting steps into what we now
call the Matrix. The first cyberterminal was a room-sized isolation
chamber with multi-contact point jacks and multiple hook-ups for
the operator. These were designed for military-intelligence applica-
tions. The first volunteers went mad.

In 2027, science tapped another source of power, this time in the
sunlit world. After years of pursuing the dream of table-top cold fusion
power, the first power plant went on-line. Though the dream of tiny
generators was not able to be fulfilled, the research led to break-
throughs that made possible the construction of large power plants.

The other breakthrough of this year was the refinement of
cyberterminals. As computer systems became increasingly com-
plex during the late twentieth century, many programs replaced
lengthy strings of commands with simple pictures, or icons, that
symbolized specific commands or programs. The user picked the
icon wanted, and the computer would do whatever the picture
meant. By the late 1990s, a typical user was dealing with so many
thousands of icons that data-processing systems were breaking
down under their own complexity.

By 2029, Sony Cybersystems, Fuchi Industrial Electronics, and
RCA-Unisys had all developed prototype cyberterminals that al-
lowed a user to interface with the world data network via his or her
nervous system, which translated the data and issued the com-
mands. Instead of typing in commands or clicking a mouse at an
icon, operations were carried out literally at the speed of thought.
These early cyberterminals were massive, requiring that the user be
in a sensory-deprivation tank. Largely funded by various intelli-
gence agencies, the goal of the research was to allow agents to raid
data systems, creating strike teams of “super hackers.”

In the United States, the CIA, NSA, and IRS pooled their
resources to exploit this development. Under the code name of
Echo Mirage, they recruited and trained a team of “cyber-comman-
dos.” Fighting balky equipment and the psychoses induced by the
overwhelming sensory signals generated by the primitive
cyberterminals, Echo Mirage was advancing toward a workable
technology when international disaster struck.

 

26 SHADOWRUN
AND SO IT CAME TO PASS...

CRASH OF ’29

On February 8, 2029, computer systems across the world were
attacked, apparently at random, by a virus program of unprec-
edented power. Systems crashed, their data wiped clean and even
their hardware burned out by the effects of the virus. As the killer
program spread, governments toppled and the world economy
neared collapse.

During the first quarter of the year, the virus shattered the Grid,
the data network that held the world together. By presidential
order, Echo Mirage was activated to counteract the virus, but the
“straight-arrow” agents of Echo Mirage were overwhelmed by the
psychological demands of psycho-physiological combat in
cyberspace.

Echo Mirage’s masters responded by recruiting the most
brilliant, if erratic, data-processing mavericks from industry and the
universities. Their choices were drafted under a presidential emer-
gency order and rammed through a brutal training program. A
cadre of 32 men and women graduated with their sanity intact.

It was not until August 2029, however, that the new cadre,
armed with improved cybertechnology, could mount a coordi-
nated attack on the killer program.

 

Eighteen minutes after engaging the virus, four members of
Echo Mirage were dead. When the data logs were analyzed, two
things became apparent. First, the virus program could induce
lethal biofeedback in humans accessing the Matrix. Second, no
existing computer security could even slow down someone using
a cyberterminal.

The corporations involved in the effort were horrified at the
ease with which Echo Mirage penetrated their most secure data
systems. In reaction, secret corporate research was begun to
develop new security software that could repel intruders using a
Matrix interface. This included research to duplicate the lethal
effects generated by the virus. The resulting software was the first
generation of intrusion countermeasures, or IC, now known world-
wide as “ice.”

Echo Mirage learned techniques to isolate and contain the
virus. Equipped with new combat programs and beefed-up
cyberterminals, they began the lengthy task of purging the Grid of
infection. By late 2031, they had wiped out the last known
concentration of the virus code.

These second-generation terminals used desk-sized hardware
and needed no sensory deprivation tank. Shortly after the final
purge of the virus, four of the surviving seven members of Echo


SHADOWRUN 27
AND SO IT CAME TO PASS...

Mirage decamped into the private sector, taking with them the
secrets of the new technology.

In May 2034, Matrix Systems of Boston came out with the first
“gray-market” cyberterminal. Six weeks later, Matrix Systems’
main computer crashed and its two founders died in apparently
unrelated accidents.

From the perspective of the military-industrial complex, the
damage had already been done. Matrix technology was loose.
Fuchi Industrial was the first major corporation to break ranks
against the invasion of the deckers when, in 2036, it marketed its
own third-generation cyberdeck, the desktop CDT- 1000.

The majority of cyberdecks sold today are licensed machines
that inject a unique signature into the logs of any systems they
access, thus recording all legitimate activity in the Matrix. For years,
however, pirate users, or deckers, have been acquiring decks and
modifying them. Deckers suppress their system's signature and
add capabilities that are of little use to an honest cyberterminal
operator. That’s the way of the world in the 2050s.

Amid all the chaos of the computer crash, another important
event of 2029 went relatively unnoticed. In that year, the Native
American Nations declared the emerging metahuman races to be
welcome in tribal lands.

THE SUPERPOWERS

The Computer Crash was the death knell of the world-domina-
tors. Already weakened by the catastrophes of the first three
decades of the century and exhausted by the trials of the Awakened
World, they reeled under the new assault.

For twelve years, beginning in 2030, the people of Europe and
Asia fought a series of conflicts now known as the Euro-Wars. With
their communication and surveillance systems disrupted, the domi-
nant power of the Russian Republic found the other members of the
Commonwealth of Independent States making long-overdue bids
for true independence. The conflict was difficult and prolonged as
Eastern European powers like Germany and Poland were dragged
into the war. Also during this period, the Awakened came to
dominate the Western Siberian Lowland, Yukut ASSR, and all other
lands to the west of the lowlands. Like the U.S. and Canada, the
Soviets lost their wilderness areas to the newcomers.

The Crash was a gut punch to the United States of America. In
a country that was increasingly dependent on information tech-
nologies, the virus was more devastating to the economy than
VITAS had been to the population. Canada was even worse off. In
2030, what was left of the United States (minus the ceded NAN
lands) merged with what was left of Canada, including her major
industrial centers and important natural resource areas. The new
government was called the United Canadian and American States
(UCAS), though there were protests on both sides of the border.

Almost four years later, a coalition of ten southern states
seceded from the union to form the Confederated American States
(CAS). The CAS was instantly recognized by Aztlan (formerly
Mexico), itself recently separated from NAN. Sentiment ran high,
and fears of a second civil war were rampant. Nevertheless, the
transition was relatively orderly. Military units, divided in loyalties,
split up and moved to their preferred countries with few incidents
of violence.

Europe was not so lucky. In 2031, adesperate Russian Republic
steamrollered across Belorussia and launched an invasion of Europe
to secure vital industrial and agricultural resources. Russia and her
allied forces met unexpectedly tough opposition from Germany,
Poland, and NATO, even though the European forces fought
without their American allies. In a fit of isolationism, the UCAS
Congress had recalled American troops from Europe.

Within a year, the European conflict slowed to a deadlock as
attrition took its toll. Though the losses in men and materiel had
been high on both sides, little territory had actually changed hands.
Then, in late 2032, Russian forces with a precarious hold on much
of Poland renewed the war in a surprise attack on Berlin. Their
airborne forces, carefully husbanded while the other republics and
their allies had taken the brunt of the fighting, initially made great
gains. The allies were thrown into confusion, but still managed to
slow the offensive. Previously uncommitted in the struggle, Britain
stepped in by sending troops into the Low Countries “to protect
British interests.” Further escalation seemed inevitable.

Then, on the frigid night of January 23, 2033, Swedish airspace
monitors detected several flights of what appeared to be British
Aerospace FA-38 Nightwraith fighter-bombers streaking across
northern Europe. In short order, the aircraft obliterated key commu-
nications and command centers belonging to both sides. With their
offensive plans crippled beyond recovery, the two sides announced
acease-fire the following day. No nation ever claimed responsibility
for the Nightwraith strike.

Though the major fighting was over, the Euro-Wars continued
to rage for many years as borders were re-established and occupy-
ing troops changed positions. The European Economic Community
collapsed. Italy, southern France, and southeastern Europe shat-
tered into hundreds of tiny states and returned to the inefficient city-
state politics that had plagued so much of their earlier history. Lost
in impotent dreams of empire, the Russian Republic continued to
fight to regain territory, but was repulsed on all fronts by neighbor-
ing states, corporate pressure, and Awakened activity.

INDEPENDENCE FEVER

As the fighting died in Europe, the specter of violence flared
again in the Americas when a force of Awakened beings and
metahumans led by three great dragons descended on the Amazon
basin. In a short but extremely bloody conflict, Brazilian forces had
to cede most of the Amazon basin to the invaders. The Brazilian
government fell, and two days later, most of their territory was
claimed by the newly declared nation of Amazonia, self-acclaimed
savior of the eco-sphere.

Turmoil erupted north of the equator, too. When Aztlan, the
NAN member that had taken over parts of Mexico and the southwest-
em portions of Texas as part of the Treaty of Denver, became
independent and was no longer under the Sovereign Tribal Council's
protection, the Texas State Legislature agitated for a military venture
to recover those lost lands. In 2035, the CAS government refused,
suspecting that NAN would defend Aztlan, their former member. No
one in Atlanta wished to risk the power of the Great Ghost Dance. The
angry Texans declared their own independence and launched an
invasion. Four months later, a frustrated and embarrassed Texas
applied for re-admittance to the CAS.

 

28 SHADOWRUN
 

CAS fears of NAN retaliation were groundless. The Sovereign
Tribal Council had its own problems. Having opened its arms to the
various metahuman races, NAN was finding that these new chil-
dren of Mother Earth had their own agenda. A powerful group of
Awakened beings and metahumans, mostly elves, were in the
process of doing to NAN what NAN had done to the United States.
In an unprecedented interruption of worldwide broadcasting, the
elves of the Northwest announced the birth of Tir Tairngire (the land
of promise) and seceded from NAN in 2035.

Unwilling or unable to resist the move, the Native American
Nations did nothing to stop the formation of this new state in the
region that was formerly Oregon. Emboldened, the Tsimshian also
declared their separation from NAN. In the wake of these defections
and renewed internal dissent, Howling Coyote resigned. The
shaman of the Great Ghost Dance withdrew into isolation.

Independence fever was contagious. Long isolated from its
UCAS parent, California also declared itself a sovereign nation in
2037. Immediately recognizing California as a nation, the powerful
Japanese Imperial State followed up by landing troops there to
protect Imperial interests from any possible economic disruptions.
Within five years, San Francisco was almost totally controlled by the
Japanese corporations.

NEW VIOLENCE

In 2036, the napalm fire-bombing of asmall community in rural
Ohio announced the arrival of the New Terrorism. Twenty people,
most of them metahumans, died in the flames on that Sunday
morning. A group calling itself Alamos 20,000 claimed responsibil-
ity. Over the next 15 years, this terrorist group was positively linked
to the deaths of more than a thousand metahumans and publicly
sympathetic normals.

Three years later, metahuman hatred peaked in the Night of
Rage. Worldwide riots resulted in the deaths of thousands of
metahumans and others cosmetically altered to appear metahuman.
In New York City alone, 836 persons perished. Backlashes and
incidents of counter-violence were widespread.

Retaliation apparently came in 2041, when EuroAir Flight 329
was destroyed, with no survivors. While en route from London to
Atlanta, the aircraft was attacked over the Atlantic by a dragon. A
garbled last transmission from the doomed craft seems to indicate
that one heroic passenger held the beast off for several minutes with
sorcery before passengers and crew were destroyed by the terrorist’s
fiery breath.

Another important development of 2041 was the birth of
policlubs in Europe. These youth-oriented associations were dedi-
cated to promoting various political philosophies. Each policlub
proclaimed its intention to impose its viewpoint on the general
public by taking the lead in the so-called European Restoration.

In 2044, Aztlan nationalized all foreign-owned businesses,
under heavy pressure from the Aztechnology Corporation. Semi-
open warfare broke out as some corporations attempted to hold on
to their properties. Using the confusion as a screen, Aztlan annexed
most of what was left of Mexico. The exception was the Yucatan,
where Awakened forces foiled all takeover attempts.

By 2046, the policlub idea had migrated to North America. The
movement spread quickly, but violence followed in its wake. The

a

 

He
JWET Bs 10 114

Humanis policlub, in particular, has built a major following that cuts
across economic, social, and political divisions. Terry Smith, a
metahuman rights activist and head of Mothers of Metahumans
(MOM), has denounced Humanis as an arm of the shadowy Alamo
20,000, in a series of paid advertisements in major dailies.

In 2048, the Aztlan government negotiated the Veracruz
Settlement with several megacorps, in the wake of a combined
corporate military strike on Ensenada. In that same year, Alan
Adams, former CEO of the Colbert Group, an Illinois-based multi-
national corporation, was elected president of the UCAS. Edna
Wallace, former governor of Louisiana, was elected president of the
CAS. Both were re-elected in 2052.

The years following 2050 saw the development of the sev-
enth-generation cyberdeck, now keyboard size. In the same period
the humanitarian organization the Universal Brotherhood enjoyed
international growth. Cyber- and biotechnology continued to ad-
vance as a significant percentage of mankind chose to distance
themselves from the faults of natural flesh.

Though the hatred between humans and metahumans still
simmers, the situation is currently relatively quiet. But in an
Awakened world, how long can that last?

 

SHADOWRUN 29
 

 

CHAPTER FOUR

 

 

 

The corps have rules, and so do the streets. Play at your
own risk.
—Wida’maker, combat mage

ollowing are a few concepts and key terms used in Shadowrun. Some are general
roleplaying terms, and others are peculiar to this game system. The rules will make
alot more sense if players become familiar with them. The terms and concepts have
been combined into one section for easy reference. The first time a term appears
in this orientation section, it is set in bold type.

MAKING DICE ROLLS

In Shadowrun, characters often encounter situations in which the gamemaster
will ask the player to roll dice to determine the outcome. These dice rolls, called
Success Tests, gauge how well or poorly a character performs a required task, be
it shooting asecurity guard who disapproves of his face, or persuading an employer
that one’s services are worth a lot more than what was originally offered. Success
Tests also determine how well a character resists damage and other unpleasant
matters.

Shadowrun uses a number of six-sided dice to resolve any challenge for a
character. The gamemaster will not require a test to find out ifa character can open
the door, but will probably ask the player to roll dice to see if his character can
somersault through the office door, land on his feet, and fire his AK-98 at the three
assassins standing behind the corporation’s chairman of the board—all without
splattering himself or the hostage all over the room.

Unlike most games, the results of the dice rolled are not added together, unless
the rules specifically direct the player to do so or unless D6 is preceded by anumber
or a Skill or Attribute name: (Attribute)D6.

 

30 SHADOWRUN
 

GAME CONCEPTS

 


 

SHADOWRUN 31
 

The gamemaster will provide the player with a target number
against which he will make the die roll. The player rolls the indicated
number of dice and then compares each die result individually to
the target number. Each individual die that scores equal to, or
greater than, the target number is considered a success. The more
dice that score successes, the better the result.

Nik, a Cat shaman, is rolling four dice against a Target
Number 4. The four dice come up as a 2, 3, 4, and 6. The
4 and the 6 equal or exceed the target number, which
gives Nik 2 successes.

AUTOMATIC FAILURE OR SUCCESS
Two other rules are important when rolling the dice for a test.
These are the Rule of One and the Rule of Six.

Rule Of One

This is the fumble rule, and it has two parts.

Any time a die roll result comes up 1 in a test, that die is an
automatic failure, no matter what the target number. But the test
can still succeed as long as other dice succeed.

If ALL the dice rolled for a test come up Is, it means that the
character has made a disastrous mistake. The result may be humor-
ous, embarrassing, or deadly. The gamemaster determines what-
ever tone is appropriate for the situation, the players, and the
dramatic or humorous needs of the moment.

Individual rules may also have particular results when the Rule
of One is applied.

Rule Of Six

The Rule of Six allows tests to succeed against target numbers
greater than 6 (since a die only has six sides, it’s probably a good thing
this rule exists). When making a test against a target number greater
than 6, the player may re-roll any dice that comes up a6 and then add
the new result to the 6. Say, for example, that one die result is a 6 in
a roll against a target number greater than 6. The player re-rolls the
6, with a result of 5. Adding the two together, the new die roll result
is 11 (6+ 5). The player can re-roll additional 6s if the current die result
total is still less than the target number. For example, to beat a target
number of 14 (really hard) the player would have to roll a 6, then re-
roll for another 6, and then re-roll for a 2 or better (6 + 6 + 2 = 14).

Remember, though, it does not matter by how much the
individual die roll beats the target number, just that it does. Once
the target number has been equaled or exceeded, stop rolling.

SUCCESS TESTS

As stated above, players and gamemaster may have to make
Success Tests from time to time during the game. The number of
dice used is equal to the appropriate Attribute or Skill Rating of the
character who must make the test. In other words, that rating
indicates how many six-sided dice to roll for the test. For example,
to make a Firearms Test, check the character's Firearm Skill Rating
and roll that number of six-sided dice for the test. For a Willpower
Test, use the character's Willpower Rating to determine the number

of dice to roll.

The rules give the target number for many tests. For others, the
gamemaster determines what is appropriate. Each die result that
equals or exceeds the target number is a success. A single success
indicates that the character has accomplished the task, but the more
successes rolled, the better. In most situations, multiple successes
mean that the character will receive more information, or do more
damage, or make that bank shot off the troll’s head and into the
side-corner pocket look so easy a child could do it.

In other Shadowrun products, this standard Success Test is
often written in an abbreviated form, such as Willpower (5) Test.
which is really just a shorthand way of saying “make a Willpower
Test using a Target Number 5.”

DICE POOLS

When things are hot, and the character's basic skills and
attributes are not enough to get him through to the next morning,
he needs help. That's where Dice Pools come in.

A dice pool is a number of dice that a player can add to those
normally allowed for a test. The four possible pools come from
different sources, usually skills or attributes. The Combat Pool, for
instance, is based on various Attributes, and it can be used for nearly
any combat-related test. Other dice pools can be used to supple-
ment other tests. The Magic Pool helps magic tests, the Control Pool
helps vehicle tests, and the Hacking Pool creates better odds for
decking tests.

The number of dice in a pool is equal to the character's rating
in the Skill or Attribute that is the source of the pool. Each die in a
pool may be used once during an action. A player's Combat Turn
can consist of several actions.

Dice Pools can refresh, or be restored to their original number
of dice available to the player.

MODIFIERS

The Shadowrun tules often call for a plus or minus modifier.
Unless otherwise stated, that modifier is applied to the target
number. Thus, a —3 modifier to a Target Number 5 produces a
modified Target Number of 5 — 3, or 2. If the rules call for +2 dice
or-—I dice, the player adds or subtracts that number of dice from the
dice for the test. Thus, a shaman who has +2 dice for summoning
certain nature spirits adds 2 more dice to the normal number he can
roll for that test.

GAME TERMS

These simplified definitions of common game terms will help
acquaint players with the rules. The body of the rules contains
complete definitions and examples in the appropriate sections.

CHARACTERS

Archetypes are pregenerated characters created from the
main classes, races, and character types of Shadowrun. Players can
use these with little additional preparation.

Attributes are part of each character's description and give a
general picture of his or her abilities. Skills and spells refine those abilities.

A Character Record Sheet keeps track of each character's
belongings, abilities, appearance, and status.

 

32 SHADOWRUN
 

An important part of the record sheet is the Condition Moni-
tor, consisting of two tracks. The Physical Damage Track displays
wound damage and shows when the character dies. The Stun
Damage Track shows fatigue and stun damage and indicates when
a character falls unconscious. Equipment like vehicles and
cyberdecks also have Condition Monitors to track the amount of
damage the object has taken.

Weapons have a Damage Code that tells the player how much
damage they do. The code consists of a number and a letter. The
number is the Power Level, which indicates the difficulty of
offsetting damage from such a weapon. The letter indicates the
Damage Level (Light, Moderate, Serious, or Deadly) that the
weapon inflicts.

There is one other term Shadowrun uses to describe charac-
ters. That term is Karma, the numerical representation of a character's
accomplishments. Later on, a character can use his or her Karma to
improve skills and even attributes. He or she can also use Karma to
do better in tests or to get out of trouble.

CONCENTRATIONS AND SPECIALIZATIONS

Areas of knowledge or technique are known as skills, which
have ratings that are used to carry out tests. A Concentration
represents a focused field of training or education in one aspect of
a general skill. For example, a character with Firearms Skill can
concentrate in rifles, improving his ability when firing rifles, but
reducing his skill with other types of firearms. Specialization is a
further narrowing of a focus in a skill that already is a Concentration.
This increases a character’s expertise in one specific area, but it
lowers his ability in related subjects. The character with a Concen-
tration in rifles could then specialize in AK-98s, becoming more
proficient with that weapon but less skilled with other weapons. A
character need not Concentrate or Specialize.

MAGIC

Magicians, characters who can use magic, come in two types.
Hermetic magicians believe that magic is a natural force that can be
understood and controlled like any other physical force. Their
magic comes from rigorously applied rules. Shamanic magicians
believe in spirits that are a part of all things. Their magic involves
making deals with those spirits.

Each type of spell or spirit has a Force Rating, chosen by the
magician and limited by his abilities, time, and money. The Force
acts like a skill or attribute rating in tests.

Spellicasting and Conjuring spirits causes a magician fatigue,
called Drain. After casting a spell, the magician checks the spell’s
Drain Code, which works much like a weapon’s Damage Code,
except that it works against the caster of the spell. The Drain Code
consists of a letter and a number. The letter stands for the Drain
Level (Light, Moderate, Serious, Deadly), just as with a weapon.
Instead of the weapon’s Power Level, the spell’s Force Rating
indicates the difficulty of avoiding Stun damage from the Drain of
casting a spell. The magician makes a test to keep from going down
to Drain.

MATRIX

Th¢é Matrix is the cybernetic analog space inside the Grid, the
worldwide computer network. Only a character equipped with a
cyberdeck can enter this “cyberspace,” which appears as a huge
lattice.

Jacking into the Matrix enhances the character's capabilities in
a number of ways, but that character only seems to be inside the
Grid. What happens is that he leaves a zombie-like shell in the
physical world for his companions to protect while he wanders the
Matrix. A character inside the Matrix appears as a persona, a
stylized image of his personality. Software, electronic security
systems, electronic addresses, other personas, and everything else
the character encounters in the Matrix appear as constructs, other
stylized images that appear in the same motif.

 

SHADOWRUN 33
 

Gr Ndia maka

 

 

Orks are people too, don’t ya know? And if you ever forget
again, I'll snap yer neck like a twig.
—John Wetland, ork

ince the Awakening, five major subspecies of Homo sapiens have appeared
throughout the world. They are evenly distributed geographically, racially, and
ethnically, though variants do appear.

The following information is available courtesy of Studies in Awakened Biology,
by Doctors Eileen Van Buren and Peter Carmine, published in 2048 by Modern
Information Services, Atlanta (CAS). The biases are the authors’ own, in particular,
their view of Homo sapiens more as interesting creatures than sentient beings. The
authors also tend to view personal or cultural traits as genetic predispositions.

Elves and dwarfs are nearly always born to parents of the same race. Elves beget
elves, dwarfs beget dwarfs, and so on. In the instances of attempts at natural
crossbreeding the child is always of the same race as either the elf or dwarf parent.
There appears to be an almost exact 50 percent chance of either expression. No true
half-breeds or crossbreeds are known to exist. By 2050 dual human parentage
almost never results in elf or dwarf offspring.

The same holds true for orks and trolls, who are nearly always born to parents
of the same race. Unlike the early days of goblinization, it is now rare for a human
child (dual human parentage) to express into ork or troll form, but it does occur.
Crossbreed attempts between the elf/dwarf group and the ork/troll group nearly
always result in a goblinized expression.

 

34 SHADOWRUN.
 


METAHUMANITY


SHADOWRUN

35
ae LE

DWARF

Homo sapiens pumilionis
Identification: The average dwarf is 1.2 meters tall and weighs 54
kilograms. His coloration is usually pinkish-white or light tan, but
may be as dark as ebony. Female dwarfs have 2 mammae, and all
dwarfs have 32 teeth. Dwarf legs are disproportionately short,
making them poor runners. Their torsos are wide, with great
breadth at the shoulders, endowing the subspecies with increased
arm strength. Their body hair is well-developed and head hair
profuse; males have extensive facial hair. The dwarf nose tends to
be large and long, and the ears slightly pointed.
Habitat: This subspecies prefers artificial or natural caverns in
wilderness areas. In urban environments, dwarfs show a preference
for dwelling in basements or subbasements.
Habits: Dwarfs may be active by day or night. Their diet is
omnivorous. Populations form small family groups, and though
they show isolationist tendencies, small enclaves are found in
communities all over the world. Their life span is unverified, but
predictions based on metabolic rates run to more than a hundred
years. Their breeding season is unrestricted. The gestation period is
284 days.
Young: One. Birth weight is 5.6 percent of mother’s weight.
Suckling time is more than 15 months.
Commentary: With eyes sensitive to the infrared spectrum, a
dwarf’s activity is as unrestricted underground as above. Dwarf
phenotypes also show an increased resistance to pathogens.

 

 

 

 

 

ELF

Homo sapiens nobilis
Identification: The height of the typical elf is 1.9 meters, and his
weight is 72 kilograms. Coloration is pale pink to white or ebony.
The females have 2 mammae, and all elves have 32 teeth. Nobilis
is more slender than sapiens and has a lighter build, though the
bone structure and musculature are equally strong. The slenderness
is exaggerated in nobilis of Polynesian and Australian aboriginal
origin. Elven body hair is sparse, but head hair is usually luxuriant
and extremely fine. Elven hair is usually straight or slightly wavy,
and is almost always worn long. There are also several populations
showing tightly curled head hair, however. The eyes are almond-
shaped; in darker-skinned nobilis they are often slightly protuber-
ant. The ears come to a definite point.
Habitat: In urban areas, elves inhabit standard human structures. In
wilderness areas, they prefer to live in structures built of natural
materials or living plants.
Habits: Elves are nocturnal beings. Their diet is vegetarian. They tend
to live in small groups, preferably apart from the rest of humanity. The
elf life-expectancy is unverified, with possible life spans of several
hundred years, but metabolic studies are inconclusive. The elven
breeding season is unrestricted. Gestation is 360 days.
Young: Usually one, though twins are common. In such cases, only
one is nobilis, with the other usually nonviable. Birth weight is 5.2
percent of mother’s weight. Suckling time is more than 25 months.
Commentary: Elven eyes are heavily endowed with rod structures.
This allows them to see in dim light far better than sapiens.

 
 

HUMAN

Homo sapiens sapiens
Identification: Humans stand about 1.7 meters high and weigh
about 70 kilograms. Coloration is variable, from pinkish-white to
ebony. There are three major ethnic groups, each of which varies
considerably in size, coloration, and hair distribution and quality,
but the ears are always rounded, the skull has 32 teeth, and the
women have 2 mammae.
Habitat: Humans prefer to dwell in roofed structures.
Habits: Most humans prefer daytime activity. Their diet is omnivo-
rous. Human populations live in small family groups, pairs of adults,
or alone. The worldwide average human life span is 55 years. The
breeding season is unrestricted. Gestation is 266.5 days.
Young: Usually one. Twins are uncommon and higher multiples
even rarer. Birth weight is 5.5 percent of mother’s weight. Suckling
time is more than twelve months. An individual offspring may be
of subspecies robustus or ingentis and may express (undergo
Unexplained Genetic Expression) at puberty.
Commentary: As the form of Homo sapiens present throughout
recorded history, Homo sapiens sapiens is sometimes called “nor-
mal,” as distinguished from other subspecies. This is not a scientific
term, as any subspecies is just as normal as another. In common
usage, the term differentiates sapiens from the groups of “meta-
humans” whose existence has been recorded since 201 1.

 

 

 

ORK

Homo sapiens robustus
Identification: Orks are | .9 meters tall and weigh 95 kilograms. Their
skin coloration varies from pale pink to ebony. Ork bodies are
proportioned similarly to that of sapiens, but robustus is more heavily
built. Head hair is usually more prominent than the sapiens ethnic
group from which the individual robustus was derived. The ork nose
tends to be broad and the lips thin. The ears show definite points and
are sometimes elongated as well. The ork skull has 32 teeth, with
greatly enlarged lower canines. Ork females have 2 mammae.
Similar Species: Robustus, like ingentis, is highly variable in appear-
ance, leading investigators to theorize that certain individuals or small
communities are, in fact, other subspecies or other species entirely.
This variety of types continues to mislead unwary researchers.
Habitat: Usually in roofed buildings.
Habits: Orks are active day and night, but seem to prefer the night.
Their diet is omnivorous, but with a distinct preference for meat.
Populations form large groups, often with a tribal structure. The
typical life span appears to be between 35 and 40 years. Their
breeding season is unrestricted. Gestation is 187 days.
Young: Ork mothers usually bear four children, but births of six or
eight are not uncommon. Birth weight is 4.2 percent of mother’s
weight. Suckling time is more than seven months. Most newboms are
obviously robustus, but may appear as sapiens; 95 percent of the
latter will express at puberty, which occurs around age ten.
Commentary: The higher proportion of rod over cone structures in
the ork’s eyes allows enhanced low-light vision. Individuals express-
ing into robustus usually evidence negative psychological effects,
with severe psychoses and aberrant behavioral patterns common.
Individuals bor robustus usually socialize normally.

 

SHADOWRUN 37
METAHUMANITY

TROLL
Homo sapiens ingentis

Identification: Trolls measure 2.8 meters and weigh
225 kilograms. Skin color varies from pinkish-white
to mahogany brown, and usually remains un-
changed after ingentisization, or transfor-
mation into troll form. Ingentis body pro-
portions differ from those of sapiens, with the ratio of arm-to-leg
length significantly higher in ingentis. Trolls are very heavily built

Sek vA and occasionally exhibit dermal bone deposition, resulting in
KG | Bom spines, rough surface texture, or an armor-plated effect. Body
( \ 4 I? hair is usually well-developed, but may be absent altogether.
WES
 

BARS URS
 be Head hair is usually more prominent than among the sapiens
ay 4% ethnic group from which the individual ingentis was derived.
oP & The nose tends to be broad. The ears show definite points
and are sometimes elongated. The sloped skull has 34
teeth; lower canines are enlarged and molars display
extreme convolutions, which researchers interpret to
mean that ingentis teeth are constantly regenerating.
Flas Troll females have 2 mammae.
— Similar Species: Some investigators believe that indi-
ws Viduals or small communities of this subspecies are,
in fact, other species entirely. Further investigation,
including breeding studies, are required to confirm
such hypotheses, as trolls are highly variable in
appearance.
Habitat: Trolls who live in wilderness areas use
caverns and converted structures such as bridges
for their dwelling places. In urban areas, they prefer
areas shunned by “normals,” such as sewers or
derelict buildings.
Habits: Trolls prefer nighttime activity. Their diet is om-
nivorous. Populations usually congregate in small groups, which
often cohabit with subspecies robustus. Metabolic studies and
direct observation indicate a life expectancy of about 50 years.
\ The breeding season is unrestricted. Gestation is 259 days.


¥ Young: Usually one. Birth weight is 2.5 percent of mother’s

| weight. Suckling time is more than 15 months.
Commentary: The sensitivity of trolls’ eyes to the infrared

portion of the spectrum allows a troll almost unrestricted activity


after dark.
Expression from sapiens to ingentis adversely affects an

individual’s mental condition, often resulting in psychosis and
aberrant behavioral patterns. Individuals born as ingentis do not
experience this trauma and usually socialize normally.

 
METAHUMANITY

 

SHADOWRUN 39
CHAPTER SIX

 

Character? Sorry chummer, titanium is what I’m made of.
—Jackal, street samurai

character in Shadowrun is much like a character in a novel or film, except that the player

controls his or her actions. Composed of a collection of attributes and skills, the character
has the personality that the player injects into it. Without that personality, the character
remains an it. Only when fleshed out can a character become minimally he or she, and,
with good characterization, someone memorable.

CHARACTER INFORMATION

Characters in Shadowrun possess various Physical, Mental, and Magical
Attribute and Skill Ratings, and may also use cyberware, spells, gear, and extras.
Though these features are important, defining the character in a way that permits
the use of the Shadowrun game system to judge his actions, they are still just
numbers on a page. Character, chummer, is what you make it.

For the most satisfactory results when creating a character, players and
gamemasters should first familiarize themselves with the rest of the rules in this
book. It’s better to have all the facts going in than to regret a decision later.

 

RACE

Characters in Shadowrun may be of one of the four subgroups of Homo sapiens:
the predominant human (Homo sapiens sapiens), elf (Homo sapiens nobilis), dwarf
(Homo sapiens pumilionis), ork (Homo sapiens robustus), and troll (Homo sapiens
ingentis). As described on pp. 34-38, all are human beings, at least according to
the geneticists. Racists say differently.

In the early 2050s, humans are still the most numerous race populating the planet.
Each of the other races, grouped collectively as metahumans, are represented about

 

40 SHADOWRUN
CREATING A CHARACTER

 

SHADOWRUN 41
CREATING A CHARACTER

equally, but are scattered unevenly across the globe. In some
places, humans form an extreme minority, but those tend to be
areas where metahumans have gathered for safety, protection, and
isolation.

Humans make up the standard. As characters, they receive no
special attribute or ability modifications.

Dwarfs are hardier (slightly higher Body), less agile (lower
Quickness), stronger (higher Strength), and more willful (higher
Willpower) than humans. They also have thermographic vision,
which allows them to see radiated infrared (heat) energy as well as
the normal light spectrum. They are also more resistant to disease.
And yes, they are short.

Elves are more agile (higher Quickness) and more charismatic
(higher Charisma) than humans. They also have low-light vision,
which enables them to see clearly in near-total darkness.

Orks are much tougher (much higher Body), stronger (higher
Strength), less charismatic (lower Charisma), and less acute (lower
Intelligence) than humans. They too have low-light vision.

Trolls are big and nasty. They are a Jot tougher (much higher
Body), slower (lower Quickness), much stronger (higher Strength),
less charismatic (lower Charisma), less acute (lower Intelligence),
and less willful (lower Willpower) than humans. They have thermo-
graphic vision, really long arms that give them advantages in melee
combat, and extremely tough skin that makes them resistant to
damage.

A player does not have to pay extra to create a human
character. Players who want to play a metahuman (dwarf, elf, ork,
or troll) must pay a little extra for the privilege.

ATTRIBUTES

In Shadowrun, each character has eight Attributes, or nine, if
the character is a magician. There are three Physical Attributes,
three Mental Attributes, and two (or three) Special Attributes.

ATTRIBUTE TABLE
Mental
Attributes

Special
Attributes
Essence
(Magic)

Reaction

Intelligence
Willpower
Charisma

 

Body represents general health and resistance to injury and
pain.

Quickness represents overall dexterity and agility. It also sets
movement, walking, and running speeds.

Strength represents the ability to lift, carry, and cause physical
damage.

Intelligence represents overall quickness of mind, aptitude,
and the ability to perceive surroundings. Knowledge Is represented
by skills, so a stupid character would have low Skill Ratings, and not
necessarily low Intelligence.

Willpower represents determination, mental stability, and the
will to resist certain kinds of mental and fatigue damage.

Charisma represents attractiveness (not necessarily physical
beauty), persuasiveness, personal aura, and general likability.

 

 

Essence is a measure of the soundness of the central nervous
system and spirit. Invasive things, such as cyberware, reduce
Essence. When Essence declines, Magic declines by the same
amount.

Magic is a measure of magical energy. Serious damage to the
body and invasive additions such as cyberware reduce magical
energy.

Reaction determines how quickly and how often a character
can act under pressure. The Reaction Rating is the average of
Quickness and Intelligence, rounded down.

Attribute Ratings

Anormal human character’s Physical and Mental Attributes are
rated from 1 to 6. Humans with cyberware, as well as metahumans
(elves, dwarfs, and such), can have higher scores in one or more
Attributes. Each racial type has its own maximums.

When a character's Attributes are listed, the first number is
always the natural, unmodified Attribute. Modifications due to
cyberware and magic create a modified Attribute Rating listed in
parenthesis following the base number, in this manner: 4 (6).
Players can spend Karma during character advancement (p. 190) to
improve an Attribute, which increases both the natural and modi-
fied ratings. Sometimes the rules refer to natural, as opposed to
augmented, Attribute Ratings. The natural rating is the Attribute
Rating minus any modifications for cyberware or magic. The aug-
mented rating includes cyberware. The increases a physical adept
receives from some special abilities are considered to be natural
Attributes, though they come from a magical source.

All characters have a starting Essence Rating of 6. Cyberware
implants and improperly healed damage reduce this rating. No
character may start with an Essence greater than 6. Characters can
never have an Essence less than 0. If they do, they die.

If the character can use magic, his Magic Rating starts at 6, but
is equal to the Essence Rating, rounded down. So, a magician with
an Essence Rating of 4.5 has a Magic Rating of 4. A character who
cannot use magic has no Magic Rating.

Newly created characters beginning the game cannot have
any Attribute Rating greater than those indicated on the Racial
Maximum Table. Attribute Ratings may, however, increase (to a
point) through character advancement during the game. Average
citizens (non-player characters) never have Attributes higher than
the racial maximum. Specific non-player characters might exceed
the racial maximums, however, and so the players should not take
anything for granted. (After all, the NPCs do have to be tough
enough to take on the player characters.)

HUMAN ATTRIBUTE RATINGS
Rating Description
1 Weak
Underdeveloped
Typical

Improved
Superior
Maximum unmodified human

 

 

42 SHADOWRUN
CREATING A CHARACTER

RACIAL MAXIMUM TABLE
Human Elf Dwarf Ork

Body
Quickness
Strength

‘0

Charisma
Intelligence
Willpower
Essence
Magic
Reaction

SKILLS

Skills define what a character knows and can do. They range
from physical abilities such as Unarmed Combat, to certain sets of
knowledge such as Biology. Skills are rated on a scale similar to the
attributes, where a Rating of 3 is the (mythical) average rating.
Beginning characters cannot have a Skill Rating higher than 6,
unless the character has a Concentration or Specialization.

Concentrations and Specializations mean that a character has
honed or narrowed his or her scope of knowledge. Within that
narrower focus, however, the character is more skilled. See Con-
centrations and Specializations in the Skills chapter, p. 70, for
more information.

CYBERWARE

Technological additions to the human body known as cyberware
canimprovea character's Attributes and abilities. Certain cyberware
makes it possible for a character to carry out extraordinary actions,
such as datarunning in the global computer Matrix, or using a
vehicle control rig to control a vehicle by thought alone.

A player who wishes to give cyberware to a character that he
is creating must purchase it with funds made available during
character creation. Each piece of cyberware also costs Essence, and
reduces the character's Essence Rating by a certain amount. Char-
acters can never have an Essence Rating less than 0.

Characters can acquire more cyberware once the game has
begun. Additional cyberware costs money, but the character can now
use money eamed in the game. Additional cyberware also costs
Essence. Unfortunately, new cyberware does not simply materialize
in a character's mailbox. The character must find someone who has
the part available, at a reasonable price, and then must find someone
to install it surgically. Players do not have to find parts or undergo
surgery to obtain cyberware during character generation.

SPELLS

Magical spells are only available to magicians capable of
sorcery. Certain types of limited-ability mages (see Adepts, p. 45,
under Building A Character, and the Magic chapter, p. 124) cannot
use the Sorcery Skill for spellcasting and so do not have spells.

A new character's first spells are acquired during character
creation. Additional spells can be learned during the game, but the
character must find a teacher and the money to pay for the lessons.
See Learning A New Spell, p. 132.

Spells have a Force Rating that begins at 1 and increases as the

 

spell’s power increases. Starting spells cannot have a Force greater
than 6. There is no such limitation once the game begins.

GEAR

Gear is stuff the character owns. Gear includes weapons,
clothes, a radio, a car, magical foci, and so on. The list of available
gear appears (oddly enough) in the Gear chapter, p. 236. Beginning
characters purchase gear with a pool of money available only during
character creation. Once the game starts, anything a character
wants to buy he’ll have to buy with money he earns. Welcome to
real life, chummer.

Some gear have ratings, beginning at 1 and increasing with the
capability and sophistication of the item. Starting gear cannot have
a rating greater than 6, even though a particular type of gear may
be available with higher ratings. There is no such limitation after the
game begins.

EXTRAS

Extras is a catchall category that covers aspects of a character's
life that are more general than a spell or piece of gear. Some of these
“advantages” are only available during character generation, so
give them careful consideration.

Contacts

Contacts are vital in Shadowrun. These are the people a
character knows who can reveal information important to the
character's work, legitimate or not. Contacts are the purveyors of
perhaps the most vital commodity of the 2050s: information. Need
to know who's doing what to whom? Ask a contact.

Contacts acquired during character creation are “paid” for with
money available only at that time. Money spent at this stage
represents the footwork normally required to hunt down a contact,
establish a working relationship, and develop some degree of trust.
Contacts acquired in this manner are dependable within reason.
Treat them well, play them straight, and they can be trusted. A
character will not get anywhere in the dicey world of Shadowrun
if he doesn’t trust anyone, and so a starting character is assumed to
have developed a working relationship with a contact.

All characters start with two free contacts. It is also possible to
acquire contacts during the game, but only through roleplaying.
Characters cannot “buy” contacts once the game begins; they have
to earn them the hard way.

Buddy

A buddy is one step up from a contact. Contacts trust the
character, but biz is biz. Push a contact too far, and who knows what
might happen. A buddy, however, is exactly what the name implies.
A buddy isa friend willing to go out on a limb for the character, to take
personal risks a contact would not take. A buddy can be a source of
information, but will also watch a character's back, deliver messages,
and do things that only friends can be trusted to do.

A character can only “buy” one buddy during character cre-
ation. The buddy must be one of the published or gamemaster-
approved Archetypes, and must have Attribute, Skill, Spell, and
other Ratings of 4.

Actually, a character could gain another buddy once the game
begins, but that will require some heavy-duty roleplaying.

 

SHADOWRUN 43
   

Gang or Tribe

The character may be a member of, or have close ties to, a local
gang or tribe. There are 2D6 members of the gang or tribe available
at any time. They come when called (arriving in 1D6 x 10 minutes)
and are very loyal. All gang or tribe members have Skill and
Attribute Ratings of 3.

Followers

Followers are even more loyal than buddies. They will do
anything for the character, including dying if necessary (hey, they
knew the risks). Followers are also “purchased” during character
creation, making a group of non-player characters available to the
character. Followers can also provide information as contacts.

Followers from any five different Archetypes the player chooses
are available, but only 1D6 + 1 come at any one time. (All five
followers must be from different Archetypes. Five followers of the
same type would be a gang!) They have the standard Archetype
statistics, but the player character must supply their gear.

Acquiring followers once the game begins is the stuff of which
urban legends are made.

Lifestyle

During character creation, the player must “purchase” the
character’s starting lifestyle. Lifestyle determines how well the
character lives and it eliminates the worry of daily expenses like
food, laundry, phone bills, and so on. To maintain a lifestyle once the
game begins, the character must pay a certain amount of money
(based on the lifestyle) per month. If the character fails to pay up,
he finds himself living at the next lowest lifestyle. Lifestyles are
covered in detail on p. 189, but the following list sums them up:

Street: Literally, living on the street, few or no expenses.

Squatter: One step up from the street; a synthaboard box,
abandoned building, or the like.

Low: An apartment, but nothing to brag about. Just the
character and the masses.

Middle: Nice house or condo, maybe even real food.

High: A high-rise luxury flat, building security, and good food
on demand.

Luxury: Imagine it, chummer, just imagine it.

 

 

CREATING A CHARACTER

BUILDING A CHARACTER

Players who want to jump right into Shadowrun can simply
choose one of the Archetypes, pregenerated, typical characters,
provided on pp. 49-64. These characters were built using the
character creation rules from this chapter. They should be used as
is. It is simpler to build a new character than to alter an Archetype.

The Archetypes are good examples of what typical characters
look like on paper. They are not meant to be the definitive version
of a character, or even the best. They are simply characters. The
gamemaster often uses Archetypes as non-player characters, while
players use them as potential contacts, buddies, or followers.

Building a character from scratch in Shadowrun is relatively
simple. The first step is to think about the character to be created and
answer a basic question. What does the character do, and why? The
answers to those questions will determine the character’s priorities.
For example, if the character is a magician, magic will be a high
priority. The player should also decide whether the character will be
a hermetic or shamanic magician; if shamanic, what totem he will
follow? The totem choice is important because it will guide other
choices of character creation. On the other hand, if the character is
to be a samurai, decker, or rigger, then the attributes, skills, and
gear important to those characters should be favored.

ALLOCATING PRIORITIES

Shadowrun uses a priority system for character generation,
and it breaks down into five levels ranging from A (the most
important) to E (the least important). There are also five categories
of ability: Race, Magic, Attributes, Skills, and Resources. By assign-
ing priorities to the categories, the player indicates which of the
character's abilities are most important and which are less so. In
other words, a player who assigns Priority A to the Magic category
is saying that magic is the most important aspect of that character.
If Priority A was assigned to Skills, then the character's skills would
be his most important aspect.

Each of the five priorities (A, B, C, D, E) must be assigned to one
of the five categories. They can be assigned in any manner, with a
few restrictions. The following description of each category also
describes the results of assigning various priorities to that category.

Race

Race simply determines the character's race. This category
carries only one restriction, but it is a fairly big one: if the player
wishes the character to be a metahuman (elf, dwarf, ork, or troll),
Priority A must be assigned to the Race category. If Priority B, C, D,
or E is assigned to the Race category, the character is human.

Human characters receive no special modifications or abilities,
so if a player wants to create a human character, he should assign
the “least important” priority, E, to the Race category.

If the player assigns Priority A to the Race category, the
character can be any of the four metahuman types. The player
simply chooses dwarf, elf, ork, or troll. The metahuman type chosen
does matter, however, because each metahuman type has different
attribute modifications and special abilities, as shown in the Racial
Modifications Table. (See Attributes below for how to use these
modifiers.)


* MASTER  CHARACTER CREATION TABLE in csv format *

Priority; Race; Magic; Attribute Points; Skill Points; Resources (FP)
A; Metahuman; Human Mage or Shaman; 30; 40; 1,000,000 (50)
B; Human; Human Adept / Metahuman Mage or Shaman;  24; 30; 400,000 (35)
C; Human; Metahuman Adept; 20; 24; 90,000 (25)
D; Human; n/a; 17; 20; 5,000 (15)
E; Human; n/a; 15; 17; 500 (5)

 

44 SHADOWRUN
CREATING A CHARACTER

RACIAL MODIFICATIONS TABLE
Modifications

+1 Body, —1 Quickness, +2 Strength, +1
Willpower, Thermographic Vision, Resistance
(+2 Body) to disease only

+1 Quickness, +2 Charisma, Low-Light Vision

+3 Body, +2 Strength, —1 Charisma, —1 Intel-
ligence, Low-Light Vision

+5 Body, —1 Quickness, +4 Strength, —2 Intel-
ligence, —1 Willpower, —2 Charisma, Thermo-
graphic Vision, +1 Reach for Armed/Unarmed
Combat, Dermal Armor (+1 Body)

Magic

The priority assigned to the Magic category determines if the
character is a magician. If the character is human and is to be a full
magician, he must assign Priority A to Magic. If the character is
metahuman and is to be a magician, he assigns Priority B to Magic.
Therefore, a human magician would have Priority A assigned to
Magic and (most likely) Priority E assigned to the Race category. A
metahuman magician would have Priority A assigned to Race and
Priority B assigned to Magic.

How the priorities are assigned does not determine whether
the character is a hermetic or shamanic magician. That is the player's
choice.

Adepts

Adepts, magicians with limited abilities, assign priorities dif-
ferently. Human adepts must assign Priority B to Magic, and
metahuman adepts must assign Priority C to Magic. A human adept
would assign Priority B to Magic and E to Race (note that Priority A
is still available). A metahuman adept would assign priority A to
Race and Priority C to Magic (B is still available).

As with regular magicians, assigning priorities does not deter-
mine what type of adept the character becomes; that is the player's
decision.

Attributes

After assigning the character's race and deciding whether or not
he will be magically active, assign a priority to the Attributes category.
The priority assigned determines how many Attribute Points the
player may distribute to the character's six Physical and Mental
Attributes (Body, Quickness, Strength, Intelligence, Willpower, and
Charisma). The higher the priority assigned, the greater the number
of points available. Priority A provides 30 points, B provides 24
points, C gives 20 points, D gives 17 points, and E has only 15 points.

The player now divides the Attribute Points among the six
Physical and Mental Attributes. Special Attributes (Essence, Magic,
Reaction) are handled differently (see below).

These points are assigned as the player wishes, keeping in
mind two limitations: no character can start with an Attribute Rating
higher than that listed on the Racial Maximum Table, p. 43, for that
racial type, and all Attributes must have a minimum Rating of 1.
Once the Attribute Points have been assigned, apply any Attribute
modifiers available based on the character's Race by adding or

 

 

 

subtracting the modifier from the allocated Attribute Points. Re-
member, this final Attribute Rating cannot exceed the racial maxi-
mum or be less than 1.

All characters begin with an Essence of 6. That value may
decrease if the character purchases cyberware. If the character is a
magician (determined by the priority assigned to the Magic cat-
egory), he has a starting Magic Rating of 6. However, the Magic
Rating is equal to the character's Essence, rounded down. A
magician with an Essence of 3.75 would have a Magic Rating of 3.

A character's Reaction Rating is equal to the sum of his Quickness
and Intelligence Ratings divided by 2 and rounded down.

Attribute Points cannot be assigned to Essence, Magic, or
Reaction.

Skills

The player may allocate a number of Skill Points, based on the
assigned priority, to the skills of his choice. Priority A provides 40
points, B provides 30 points, C gives 24 points, D has 20 points, and
E has 17 points.

The player can choose any skills from the Skills chapter, p. 66,
with the following limitation: only characters with a Magic Rating
(those that received an appropriate priority for Magic) may use the
Sorcery and Conjuring Skills. In this case, it often works best for the
player to make a list of the skills that he or she wants the character
to have, and then assign the Skill Points to the skills. There are no
restrictions on the distribution of Skill Points except that no starting
character may have a Skill Rating of more than 6, unless Concentra-
tions and Specializations are assigned (see Concentrations and
Specializations, p. 70, Skills).

If using Concentrations and Specializations, apply the follow-
ing rules:

*Any one general skill may only have one Concentration or
Specialization. Each general skill can only be acquired once.

‘If using a Concentration, add +1 to the general Skill Rating to
determine the Concentration Rating, then reduce the general Skill
Rating by—1. For example, a character with 5 points allocated to the
general skill of Firearms that has a Concentration In Pistols (a
category of Firearms) would end up with a Firearms Skill of 4 (5 — 1)
and a Pistols Concentration of 6 (5 + 1).

“If specializing, add +2 general Skill Rating to determine the
Specialization Rating, then reduce the general Skill Rating by —2. A
character with a Specialization also uses the appropriate Concentra-
tion at a rating equal to the original Skill Rating. Using the same
example as above, if the character had Specialization in Ares Predator
(a type of pistol), he would have an Ares Predator Skill Rating of 7 (5
+ 2), the Pistols Concentration of 5 (the original Skill Rating), but all
other Firearms (the Skill) at 3 (5 — 2).

Special Skills may also be purchased during character genera-
tion (see p. 74), but are subject to gamemaster approval. One
important Special Skill is Language. All characters know their native
language at a rating equal to their Intelligence plus 2 (the total may
exceed 6). Characters with a Street lifestyle (see Money below) also
have a local dialect language like City Speak or Tunnel Talk at one-
half their Intelligence Rating (round down). Other languages may
be purchased in the same way as skills, but refer to the Languages
section, p. 74, for more information.

A starting skill must have a minimum Rating of 1.

 

SHADOWRUN 45
CREATING A CHARA R

Resources

The Resources category provides two things: money to pur-
chase cyberware, gear, and extras, and Force Points to acquire
magic spells and focuses. Only magicians receive Force Points, but
all characters get the money. Priority A provides 1 ,000,000¥ and 50
Force Points, B provides 400,000¥ and 35 Force Points, C gives
90,000¥ and 25 Force Points, D has 5,000¥ and 15 Force Points, and
E provides a staggering 500¥ and 5 Force Points. (What do you
expect for the lowest priority?)

Money

In the world of the 2050s, all money conforms to an interna-
tional unit of exchange, the nuyen (¥). Nuyen is used to purchase
cyberware, gear, extras, and to pay the monetary cost of foci.

To purchase cyberware, the player selects the item from the list
on p. 254, pays the cost listed, and reduces the character's Essence
by the indicated amount. Remember, Essence can never fall below
0, and Magic is directly connected to Essence (see Magic, p. 1 16).
During character generation, ignore Availability, Street Price (p.
184), and any surgery orinstallation costs associated with cyberware.
Once the game begins, however, the player must pay these costs
and take availability into consideration.

To purchase gear, simply pay the cost listed in the Gear section
(pp. 254-265). Remember, however, that characters cannot start
the game with any gear whose rating is higher than 6. A magician
purchasing foci must pay the monetary cost of the item (p. 254), and
the Bonding cost in Force Points (see below). Remember the
incidentals—ammunition, body armor, cyberdecks, programs, con-
juring materials, magical libraries, and so on.

To buy extras, pay the costs listed on the table below. A
lifestyle must be purchased during character generation. If the
player chooses not to purchase a lifestyle, that character is living on
the street, like it or not. Characters can buy several months’ worth
of any lifestyle by paying a lump sum up front during character
generation. Also remember, characters start with two free contacts.

COST OF EXTRAS
Extra Cost
Contact 5,000¥
Buddy 10,000¥
Gang/Tribe 50,000¥
Followers 200,000¥

Lifestyle
Street O¥

Squatter 100¥ per month

Low
Middle
High
Luxury

Force Points

The second type of Resource available is Force Points. Force
Points are used to purchase magic spells and to acquire foci, items
of magical power used by magicians. Spells are chosen in a manner

1,000¥ per month
5,000¥ per month
10,000¥ per month
100,000¥ per month

 

 

similar to Skills. The player should look through the Spell Directory
on pp. 151-158, choose the spells he wants his magician to know,
write them down, and assign points to each spell from the Force
Points total. Remember, no starting spell can have a Force greater
than 6. It is also important to keep the totem modifiers (p. 119) in
mind when choosing spells, because they will affect how the
character is roleplayed.

Characters purchasing a focus must pay the Bonding cost (p.
137) for the item from their available Force Points. For example, if
the focus costs 8 Karma to bond, the player must spend 8 Force
Points, plus the monetary cost, to acquire the focus.

More Metahumans (Optional)

In the Shadowrun universe, metahumans are the minority. The
character creation system reflects this by making the Metahuman
Race priority very expensive compared to other priorities at the
same level. This design keeps the number of metahuman
shadowrunners down to something near the actual human-to-
metahuman ratio within the game universe.

If gamemasters are comfortable with a higher-than-average
number of metahuman player-characters in their game, they may
reduce the required Metahuman Race priority from A to C, and shift
the Magic priorities to A for full magicians and B for adepts in all
races, human and metahuman.

This may create an unrealistic concentration of metahumans in
the game (but hey, they are cooler, after all).

Allergies (Optional)

At the player's option, ametahuman character can be given an
allergy during character creation. The allergy can be to a variety of
substances or conditions, and of varying degrees of severity.
Players should choose an allergy and then a severity from the table
below.

In exchange for the allergy, the character receives some extra
points in character generation. These can be in the form of Attribute,
Skill, or Force Points, or additional nuyen (¥). The character can only
receive the bonus from one of the associated categories, for either the
allergy or the severity, but can choose different categories for each.

Consult the description of allergies and severities on p. 220 of
the Critters section for more information.

ALLERGY AND SEVERITY TABLE
Attributes Skills Force

Allergy
Uncommon
iron, silver +1 +1 +1

Common
plastic, pollutants,
sunlight +2 +2

Severity Attributes Skills
Nuisance — —_
Mild +1 +2
Moderate +2 +3
Severe +3 +4

 

 

46 SHADOWRUN

MASTER CHARACTER CREATION TABLE

Race
Metahuman
Human

Magic
Human Magician

Human Metahuman Adept
Human i
Human —

COMPLETING THE CHARACTER

So far, the character is just numbers. Now it’s time to build on
those statistics. First, make sure the character creation process is
complete.

“If the character is a magician, what kind? If a shaman, what is
its totem? (Adepts have similar requirements.)

‘Are the proper priorities for Race and Magic assigned?

*Have all Attribute Points been allocated and attribute modi-
fiers from Race applied?

*Have all Skill Points been allocated, and the adjustments for
Concentrations and Specializations made (if used)?

*Does the character have the necessary equipment, cyberware,
spells, contacts, foci, and so on?

*Has a lifestyle been chosen?


Starting Money

Any unspent Resource nuyen translates to money available
during the game at a 10:1 ratio. If, after character generation, a
character had 15,000¥ left, that character would start the game with
1,500¥ (15,000 + 10).

All characters also start with 3D6 x 1,000¥, which can be in
whatever form the player chooses.

Starting Karma

Human characters begin the game with 1 point in their Karma
Pool (p. 191). Metahumans begin the game with 2 points in their
Karma Pool, unless the More Metahumans optional rule (above) is
in use, in which case they only get the standard 1 point. (What? You
want everything?)

A new shadowrunning team starts the game with 2 points in
its team Karma Pool (p. 191). Starting characters may contribute
some of their starting Karma Points to team Karma if they wish.

Now, move on to the fun part.

 

Human Adept/Metahuman Magician

 

Attributes
30 points
24 points
20 points
17 points
15 points

Resources
1,000,000¥/50
400,000¥/35
90,000¥/25
5,000¥/15
500¥/5

FLESHING OUT THE CHARACTER

To really get the most enjoyment from the game. players
should flesh out their character and bring it to life. Again, acharacter
without a background is just numbers on paper.

What follows parallels the approach many authors, play-
wrights, and screenwriters use to flesh out a character. The re-
sponses to these questions will help players build a fuller character
background, which they can continue to expand upon later.

TWENTY QUESTIONS

Each player should jot these questions down on a piece of
paper and answer them, as fully as possible, for their character.
Points to take into consideration and possible repercussions of a
decision follow each question.

What Is the character’s sex?

The choice is simple; male or female, but the choice may make
a difference. Biological, sociological, and, some say, psychological
perspectives and needs are different in men and women. Sexism in
corporate management and advancement is pretty much a thing of
the past in the 2050s era, but may still exist on the streets, where
attitudes are personal. What happens when the next street samurai
a male character meets is female, and frighteningly sexist?

What Is the character’s physical size?
Is the character a tall, skinny dwarf? Ora short, stout elf? Or just
average?

What Is the color of the character's hair, eyes, and
skin?

There’s natural color, and then there’s augmented color.
Modem cosmetics are amazing, and used by almost everyone
(both sexes) to one degree or another. What color or colors is the
character's hair? How is it wom? Why? What about eye color? Is it
natural? (Cybereyes can look like almost anything.) Does the
character need glasses, wear contacts, or has he already had
corrective surgery? What about skin color?

Metahumans come from all racial types, so yes, there are
Asiatic dwarfs, negro elves, and almost every other possible race/
race combination. And remember, racism in 2053 is rooted in race
(human, dwarf, elf, ork, or troll) rather than skin color. (Why worry
about the tanned-looking guy standing next to you on the subway
when that thing over there has hands the size of your head?)

 

SHADOWRUN 47

What is the character’s general appearance?

Does the character stand erect or stooped? Dress
anachronistically, stylishly, or inauspiciously? Look intimidating or
casual? Is the character attractive? Is there something distinctive in
the shape of its head, face, or limbs?

What might someone seeing the character for the first time
think?

Where was the character bom?

A child growing up in Seattle will have different childhood
experiences than one growing up on NAN tribal lands. Heck, a child
growing up in a rich neighborhood will have different experiences
than one growing up a few blocks away in a poorer neighborhood.
Decide into what country, state, province, city, and, if possible,
neighborhood (or at least poverty level) the character was born.
Many psychologists argue that what we are as adults is influenced
primarily by who we were as children. Think about the character's
childhood, neighborhood, friends, and family.

What is the character’s age?

When a character was born is as important as where. Was the
character alive before the Awakening in 2011? How about the
Treaty of Denver in 2018? Or the Computer Crash of 2029? Or the
Night of Rage in 2039? Or even the secession of the elven nation
of Tir Tairngire from NAN four years earlier? Each of these events,
and many others described in And So It Came To Pass, p. 20,
changed the world. Was the character in the vicinity of any of these
events, and did the event affect him or her? How did those events
affect the character's family or friends?

What was the character’s family?

What did the character's parents do? What was the family’s
means of support? Were the parents married, separated, divorced?
What was family life like? Does the character have any siblings?
Where are they now? What do they do? Does the character keep in
contact with them? Did the character even know his birth family? If
not, who or what was his surrogate family?

Has the character begun his own family?
Is the character married? Divorced? Separated? Does he have
children? If not, does he want to have children?

Where or how was the character educated?

Where did the character learn his skills? Did he go to high school?
Did he continue into higher education? Where? Was his schooling
public, private, or corporate-sponsored? Was the character privately
tutored, or did he get his lessons from the school of hard knocks?

Has the character ever done anything else for a living?

Sure, the character is shadowrunning now, but what about
before? Did the character ever earn money or make a living doing
something “legitimate”? Did he enjoy it? Why did the character
stop doing it? Would he go back?

What about the character’s political and religious beliefs?
These are sure-fire argument-starters, but what about it? Does
the character have any defined political beliefs? What are those

beliefs? Is the character religious? Was his family religious? Are they
still? Did the character change religions, and if so, why?

What is the character’s moral code?

Will the character kill? Why? When did the character decide
that he could? Does he think killing is acceptable? Under what
circumstances? Where does the character stand on related issues
like capital punishment, abortion, and euthanasia? Does the charac-
ter adhere to a personal sexual ethics code, or even think about it?

Does the character have any goals?

Is this all the character ever wants to do? Does he have any
ambitions beyond the here and now? Is he satisfied with the way
things are? If not, why not, and does he plan to change things? How?
How long will that take, and is the character willing to wait that long?

Why does the character run the shadows?

What path led him here? Does the character run for the thrill?
The money? To tweak the noses of the powers that be? As one step
of a personal plan? As a political statement? Would any event or
circumstance make the character stop running the shadows?

What Is the character’s personality?

Is the character pessimistic? Idealistic? Radical? Conservative?
Resigned? Easy-going? Militant? Aloof? Intense? Bombastic? Ob-
sessive? Superstitious? Extroverted? Introverted? Ambivalent?
Rational? Opinionated? Passionate? Questioning?

What special qualities does the character possess?

This does not necessarily refer to skills, but to what the character
does well. Does he get along well with people? Is he skilled at taking
care of business? Prioritizing tasks? Planning ahead?

Are there certain things the character just cannot do?
Get close to people? Perceive himself realistically? Work well
with others? Think clearly under stress? Handle money well?

What does the character hate?

Corporations? Orks? Shadowrunning? Personal questions?
Sentimentality? The media? Her family? Certain people? Society in
general?

What does the character love?

The seashore? The view from tall buildings? Quiet times? Loud
music? Art? Taking care of business? A specific person? A certain
place?

What is the character’s name?
What was his or her birth name? What name does he use now?
Did the character choose his name, or was it a nickname or joke?

THE CHARACTER RECORD SHEET

Congratulations! A character is born. Fill out the Character
Record Sheet provided in the back of this book. Make photocopies
of the blank sheet if needed.

The character is ready to run.

 

48 SHADOWRUN
ARCHETYPES

BODYGUARD

“You blow it once in my line of work and you probably ain't
never gonna work again. Who's gonna hire you if they know you
blew it and a client got geeked? Reputation is everything.

“If you hire me, you can trust me. My eyes see everything, my
ears hear everything, but | don’t remember anything you want me
to forget. That's part of my job. If you don’t believe me, what’s the
point of me working for you?

“Hire me, and you can sleep easy. You're safe in my hands.
Nobody gets near you, and if they try, I'll take care of them. I can
play it as soft or hard as you want.

“I'll do anything you say, except when the drek starts to fly.
That's when you do exactly as | say. If ] say jump, you jump. If I say
run, you run. When your life's in danger, it’s my brawl game.”

Commentary: The bodyguard is a professional, and personal
protection is his specialty. His job can be as boring as guarding a
reclusive, housebound computer programmer, or as exciting as
protecting the latest sweet young simsense star during her first
whirlwind tour of Europe.

Attributes Skills
Body: 6 (9) Car: 6
Quickness: 6 Firearms: 6
Strength: 5 Negotiation: 4
Charisma: 3 Stealth: 2
Intelligence: 5 Unarmed Combat: 6
Willpower: 5
Essence: .2
Reaction: 5 (9)

Initiative: 9 + 3D6

Dice Pools
Combat: 8

Cyberware

Air Filtration: 5
Dermal Plating: 3
Skillsofts
Armed Combat: 3
Bike: 3
Electronics: 3
Rotor: 3
Winged: 3
(4) Specialized Etiquette softs at 3 points each
Skillwire: 3
Smartlink
Wired Reflexes: 2
Contacts
Choose (2) Contacts
Gear
(3) Spare Clips
Ares Predator (with smartlink, 50 rounds exploding ammo)
Armor Clothing (3/1)
Concealed Holster
DocWagon Contract (Gold)
High Lifestyle (2 months prepaid)
Lined Coat (4/2)
Pocket Secretary
Portable Phone (ear/boosted)
Tres Chic Clothing
Starting Cash: | 1,474¥

 

 

SHADOWRUN 49
 

 

COMBAT MAGE

“No one argues that the samurai is lord of the physical street, but
ifyou view that as the sum of existence, you are not long for this world.

“lam not the average mage. Though I'm interested in all
matters arcane, my passion lies in the application of those mystical
theories. My lifestyle is expensive, for | cherish all the finer things.
One could not enjoy the life | do by poring endlessly through myriad
dusty tomes.

“I never worry about money, for my services are most useful
to those who can pay me what | am worth.”

Commentary: The combat mage is from that elite group of
magicians dedicated to applying their magic martially. In a firefight,
his sudden appearance can tip the balance. The combat mage is a
lean, powerful fighting machine, and more than a match for most
samurai. It would be foolish, however, for a combat mage to take
on a samurai head-to-head. Guile and subterfuge will always be his
most powerful tools.

Attributes Skills
Body: 2 (3) Conjuring: 3
Quickness: 4 Etiquette (Corp): 2
Strength: 2 Firearms: 3
Charisma: 2 Magical Theory: 4
Intelligence: 5 Sorcery: 6
Willpower: 5 Unarmed Combat: 2
Essence: 5.8
Magic: 5 (7)
Reaction: 4
Initiative: 4 + 1D6
Dice Pools
Combat: 7 (9)
Magic: 6 (8)
Cyberware
Cybereyes with Thermographic and Low-Light
Contacts
Choose (2) Contacts
Gear
Armor Jacket (5/3)
DocWagon Contract (Gold)
HK227 SMG (w/laser sight and 50 rounds regular ammo)
Middle Lifestyle (1 month prepaid)
Power Focus (2)
Spell Lock (Armor/2 successes)
Spell Lock (Personal Combat Sense/4 successes)
Spells
Combat:
Manaball: 4
Mana Bolt: 4
Power Bolt: 3
Detection:
Clairvoyance: 3
Detect Enemies: 2
Personal Combat Sense: 5
Health:
Heal: 3
Increase Reaction (+2): 2
Manipulation:
Armor: 3
Confusion: 3
Starting Cash: 14, 100¥

 

50 SHADOWRUN
CHETYPES

DECKER

“Technomancer, that’s what | am. A wizard with technology,
not that fuzzy mumbo-jumbo razz. The mighty computer is at my
command, trembling to perform my least wish.

“You want some Ice cracked, I’m your girl. I've got programs
to slide past the best. You got a shadowrun? No sweat. I've done
“em, and come away clean, too. Ain't no corp tracer or groundhound
gonna pick up my trail. | hit "em sharp and hard, then I'm away and
running, a ghost in the Grid. The only touch they'll ever make is my
street name, and I'll only let ‘em have that if | feel like it.

“You'd better have plenty on your credstick, chummer. | ain’t
cheap. I'm a big leaguer, not some junkyen runner. I'm slick and I’m
fast, the cutting edge. The Matrix is my home, and | wouldn't have
it any other way. You ain't alive till you've jacked in and seen the
electron horizon in cyberspace. I'm going places.

“Maybe you've heard of Fastjack? Well, forget him! I’m the hot
new decker on the Grid, and I’m gonna put him in the history
banks.”

Commentary: The decker is a console cowgirl, a descendent
of the computer hacker of the latter part of the 20th century. She
jacks into the Matrix to manipulate the dataflows to her own ends
while seeking the big score or the trick that will snug her firmly into
the annals of the technomancers. She skirts the edges of legality,
overstepping them more than occasionally.

Attributes Skills
Body: 2 Bike: 4
Quickness: 4 Computer: 6
Strength: 3 Computer Theory: 6
Charisma: 1 Computer (B/R): 6
Intelligence: 6 Electronics: 6
Willpower: 4 Etiquette (Street): 5
Essence: 5.5 Firearms: 3
Reaction: 5 (7)* Physical Sciences: 4
Initiative: 5 (7)* + 1D6 (2D6)*
Dice Pools
Combat: 7
Hacking: 11 (13)*
Cyberware
Datajack
Headware Memory (30 Mp)
Contacts
Choose (2) Contacts
Gear
Fuchi Cyber-4 (with Response Increase 1)
Programs:
Bod: 5
Evasion: 4
Masking: 4
Sensors: 5
Attack: 6
Browse: 4
Deception: 4
Microtronics Workshop; Table-top Personal Computer (100 Mp)
Yamaha Rapier
Ruger Super Warhawk (with 10 regular rounds)
Middle Lifestyle
Starting Cash: |0,860¥
“Applies in the Matrix only.

 

 
RCHETYPES

DETECTIVE
 
  

“They told me you were looking for me. Well, you found me.
So turn on the sob story. | got the time. But first, tickle my comp with
your credstick. | may have the time, but | haven’t got the interest
until | know you've got the nuyen. Time takes money, chummer.
Just flick the stick into the slot. The box will dump my rates and sheet
onto your stick.

“The sheet will give you the highlights of my illustrious career:
maidens rescued (extra charge for preserving original status), the
lost found, the necessary lost, but | don't do erasures. No point in
going on. | see by your eyes you've already scanned the sheet.
Charlie at the precinct, or did Stevie the Snitch pass it on? Don’t
really matter. Ifsomebody hadn't given you my name, you wouldn't
be looking for me.

“Now before we go any further, let me check the cred balance.
Whew! You got my interest, all right. What's the job?”
Commentary: The detective leads a hard life, balanced be-
tween the shadows of crime and the harsh glare of
corporate and city life. To keep his own code of honor
and justice intact, he makes constant compromises to
get through the day, or the night. He won't touch
magic, though his cases often involve it, and he won't
augment his body, though sometimes his resolve
puts him at a disadvantage. He'll tell you that a man has to stand
on his own feet.

Attributes Skills
Body: 4 Biotech: 2
Quickness: 4 Car: 4
Strength: 3 Computer: 4
Charisma: 3 Etiquette (Corp): 3
Intelligence: 6 Etiquette (Street): 4
Willpower: 4 Firearms: 6
Essence: 6 Negotiation: 6
Reaction: 5 Stealth: 5
Initiative: 5 + 1D6 Unarmed Combat: 6
Dice Pools
Combat: 7
Cyberware
None
Contacts
Choose (6) Contacts
Gear
Ares Predator (with 10 rounds)
Armor Vest (2/1)

Ford Americar (weather-beaten)

Low Lifestyle (1 month prepaid)

Micro-Recorder

Sony Pocket Secretary

Walther Palm pistol (with 10 rounds)
Starting Cash: 12,311¥

 

52 SHADOWRUN
ARCHETYPES

DWARF MERCENARY

“Oh, har-har, | get it. That was a joke, right? I've got news for
you, chummer. When | pull the trigger on my FN-HAR, | ain't gonna
be the one knocked across the room.

“If it’s been a hot spot, I've vacationed there. Got the tan and
the scars to prove it. Wanna see my passport? Which one?

“You've got my last six personal efficiency reports in front of ya,
with not a smudge of red ink on any of them. They're certified. If I'd
doctored them, you'd know about it. Keep questioning my integ-
rity, though, and they’ll be covered in red.

“You know my rates. We got a deal or what?”

Commentary: The dwarf mercenary, though a rarity among
the corporate armies of the world, is nonetheless a stalwart profes-
sional. His size is an advantage in rough terrain where a normal-
sized merc would get bogged down or hung up. Too many short
jokes, however, and he'll hang you out to die.

Attributes Skills
Body: 6 Car: 4
Quickness: 3 Etiquette (Mercenary): 2
Strength: 5 Firearms: 6
Charisma: 2 Gunnery: 5
Intelligence: 3 Stealth: 4
Willpower: 4 Throwing: 4
Essence: 5.5 Unarmed Combat: 5
Reaction: 3

Initiative: 3 + 1D6

Dice Pools
Combat: 4

Cyberware
Smartlink

Gear

Armor Clothing (3/1)
(2) Defensive Hand Grenades
FN-HAR Assault Rifle (100 rounds
and laser sight)
Low Lifestyle
Contacts
Choose (2) Contacts
Starting Cash: 10,154¥
Notes: Natural thermographic vi-
sion, +2 Body for disease
resistance only

-



SHADOWRUN 53
     
ELVEN DECKER

“They say the Awakened have no touch for technology. Well,
short, squat, and ill-favored, don’t believe everything you hear on
the street. | am living proof that a metahuman, especially an elf, can
ride the Matrix and bend it to his will.

“lam atechnomancer, and there isn't a drop of the Rain Dance
in the magic | do. My spells are programs, offering reliability no
spellworm can boast. My wand is my datajack, portal to the
glittering scenery of the Matrix. My conjurings are electrons slaved
to my will under the drivers of my elegant and sophisticated
software. You will find no better.

“So, tell me whatit is you wish me to do. Ifit piques my interest,
I will essay the task and complete it to my satisfaction, which shall
certainly exceed your requirements.

“There will, of course, be a fee.”

Commentary: The elven decker seems, at first, a contradiction
in terms. He is living proof that metahumans cannot be stereo-
typed, and he will be the first to tell you that not all elves live in the
woods. Magic has no attraction for him, and although he has the
superior attitude of his brethren in the wilderness, he has little use
for their customs and practices. He is happy living in the modern
technical world.

Attributes Skills
Body: 2 Bike: 3
Quickness: 5 Computer: 5
Strength: 2 Computer Theory: 5
Charisma: 5 Etiquette (Elven): 2
Intelligence: 5 Etiquette (Street): 2
Willpower: 4 Firearms: 3

Essence: 5.5
Reaction: 5 (7)*
Initiative: 5 (7)* + 1D6 (2D6)*
Dice Pools
Combat: 7
Hacking: 10 (12)*
Cyberware
Datajack
Headware Memory (30 Mp)
Contacts
Choose (2) Contacts
Gear
Fuchi Cyber-4 (with Response Increase 1)
Programs:
Bod: 5
Evasion: 4
Masking: 4
Sensors: 5
Attack: 6
Browse: 4
Deception: 4
Microtronics Workshop; Table-top Personal Computer (100 Mp)
Yamaha Rapier
Ruger Super Warhawk (with 10 regular rounds)
Middle Lifestyle
Starting Cash: 10,860¥
Notes: Natural low-light eyes.
“Applies only in the Matrix.

 

54 SHADOWRUN
ARCHETYP

FORMER COMPANY MAN

  

“Let's get one thing understood. I’m a freelancer. | don’t work
for them anymore. | don’t care what you heard about the dust-up
over at Aztechnology last month. That wasn’t me. I'm a pro. Only
amateurs make that big a noise. Besides, nobody saw me.

“So you're looking for somebody who can do a job and keep
his mouth shut? You don’t have to look any further. I did a good job
for them, and I'll do the same for you. We'll get along just fine as
long as you remember one thing: | don’t talk about them. Ever. That
kind of talk is more trouble than a Beretta full-auto flechette gun
shoved in your belly.

“I did learn one thing when | was working the corp. You
don’t play without a little quid pro quo, ya know. If 1 can’t do
it for you, | know somebody who can. So let’s talk price and
details. I’m sure we can come to a working arrangement.”

Commentary: The former company man has had
his eyes opened to the nature of the corporation he
served for so long. Disgusted by the corrup-
tion he uncovered, he quit. He is still haunted
by his former employers and deeds, but is
trying to bury the past. Making a new life
is hard. He has little to offer except the
skills he used in the company’s behalf. He
doesn’t like it, but he uses them. Some day,
he’ll retire completely.

Attributes Skills
Body: 4 Car: 6
Quickness: 4 (5) Computer: 3
Strength: 4 (5) Demolitions: 2
Charisma: 2 Etiquette (Corp): 4
Intelligence: 3 Firearms: 6
Willpower: 3 Stealth: 4
Essence: 1.3 Unarmed Combat: 6
Reaction: 4 (8)

Initiative: 8 + 3D6

Dice Pools
Combat: 5

Cyberware
Datajack

Muscle Replacement (1)

Smartgun Link

Wired Reflexes (2)
Contacts

Choose (2) Contacts
Gear

Armor Clothing (3/0)

Armor Jacket (5/3)

Bug Scanner (4)

Earplug Phone with Booster

Eurocar Westwind 2000

Fichetti Pistol (with internal smartlink, 100 regular rounds)

HK227 SMG (with intemal smartlink, 100 regular rounds)

Jammer (4)

Low-Light Goggles

Medkit

Survival Kit

(2) Trang Patch (5)

Trauma Patch

White Noise Generator (6)
Starting Cash: 17,780¥

 

SHADOWRUN 55
| ARCHETYPES

 
  

FORMER WAGE MAGE

“You would do well to withdraw your questions as to why | left
my former employ. | will not satisfy your curiosity. Ask my old boss
if you want to know.

“But let us not sour a mutually profitable arrangement over
such trivia. While my refusal to speak of the past may seem
inconvenient and perhaps a trifle disconcerting, | assure you that |
bring no tail behind me. | am a free agent, and am quite capable of
keeping any threads from my past from tangling your schemes.

“We are all aware of the state of the world and the changes that
are the legacy of our grandfathers’ time. | assume that your
concerns touch on some of these changes, at least in part. You
need acompetent mage, well-versed in the fine points of magic.

“Tell me your problem. Once | know what it is, | can
begin to solve it.”

Commentary: The former wage mage has had her eyes
opened to the nature of the corporation she served for so

long. Disgusted by the corruption she uncovered, she quit.
Sheis still haunted by her former employers and the perversion

4 of the magic she performed for their benefit. She wants
i (AY)

  

to forget the past and make a new life. She has the skills
she used in the company’s behalf and uses them, more
positively she hopes, to do good. Some day, the scales
will be balanced, and she will be able to rest.

Attributes Skills
Strength: 1 Conjuring: 6
Quickness: 3 Etiquette (Corp): 5
Body: 2 Firearms: 3
Charisma: | Magical Theory: 6
Intelligence: 6 Negotiation: 2
Willpower: 4 Psychology: 2
Essence: 6 Sorcery: 6
Magic: 6
Reaction: 4

Initiative: 4 + 1D6
Dice Pools
Combat: 6
Magic: 6
Cyberware
None
Contacts
Choose (2) Contacts
Gear
Armor Clothing (3/0)
Computer Media Hermetic Library
Conjuring: 3
Magical Theory: 3
Sorcery: 3
Data Display with 60 Mp of storage
Ruger Super Warhawk (w/10 rounds of ammo)

  

Spells
Choose one orientation from the following:
Fighter: Healer: Prowler:

Fireball: 5 Antidote M Toxin: 2 Analyze Device: 5
Heal: 3 Cure M Disease: 4 Chaotic World: 5
Mana Bolt: 6 Detox M Toxin: 3 Clairvoyance: 4
Powerball: 6 Heal : 6 Entertainment: 3
Sleep: 5 . Hibernate: 4 Mask: 3

Treat: 6 Sleep: 5

Starting Cash: | 1,100

 

56 SHADOWRUN
PUG ah idm a

GANG MEMBER

“You don't look so tough to me, but that’s okay. Whadd'ya
expect from some liner who ain't run with my gang? You looking
for tough? You got it right here.

“There's only one real power in this part of the ‘plex. We know
the streets, and the people know us. This is our turf. Gang turfl And
we protect it. You want a piece of us, you know where to find us.
That is, if you're stupid enough to try.

“Anything you need on the street, you come to me. Just
remember, you burn me, the gang burns you. Simple law of the
‘plex, chummer. We take care of our own.”

Commentary: The gang member may be young, but he is old
in the ways of life in the metroplex. He is a survivor, a predator of
the concrete jungle. He is tough, smart, and confident.

  

 

Attributes Skills
Body: 5 Armed Combat: 4
Quickness: 6 Bike: 3
Strength: 5 Etiquette (Street): 4
Charisma: 6 Firearms: 4

Intelligence: 4 Projectile Weapons: 3
Willpower: 4 Stealth: 3
Essence: 5.7 Unarmed Combat: 3
Reaction: 5
Initiative: 5 + 1D6
Dice Pools
Combat: 7
Cyberware
Hand Razors
Cybereyes with Low-Light
Contacts
Choose (4) Contacts
Gear
Knife
Simsense Player and Half a Dozen Sense
Chips
Squatter Lifestyle
Streetline Special Pistol (with 10 regular rounds)
Synth-leathers (0/1)
Yamaha Rapier
Starting Cash: | |,647¥
Notes: The gang member can call on 2D6 other members
for help.

 

SHADOWRUN 57
 

RCHETYPES

MERCENARY

“We're all businessmen, right? We both work for a living, don't
we? | got bills to pay, just like you. Only difference is, you work with
a cyberdeck. | work with an Uzi Ill.
2 “Look, my record's good. Three years
» in the corp’s first-run circuit and a clean two
NW with the Aztlan Third Legion. No demo-
Pe tions or discipline problems logged in my
jacket. Huh? Don't give me that stuff about
doctored records. I’m telling you my record's
clean. | can do your job quiet, orl can doit loud. Either
way, I'll get results, and that’s what you want, isn’t it?

“Thought so. Now, let's talk price.”
Commentary: The merc is a tough veteran who has seen
combat in every corner of the world. He'll work for the corp, the
policlubs, a petty dictator, or a noble revolution, as long as he gets
paid. The contractis all that matters. Receiving payment on ajob has
never been a problem for him. No employer would dare to renege
on a merc contract.

Attributes Skills
Body: 5 Armed Combat: 6
Quickness: 4 Car: 4
Strength: 5 Demolitions: 3
Charisma: 3 Firearms: 6
Intelligence: 4 Gunnery: 4
Willpower: 3 Military Theory: 2
Essence: 3.4 Rotor: 3
Reaction: 4 (6) Stealth: 3

Initiative: 6 + 2D6 Throwing: 3

Dice Pools Unarmed Combat: 6
Combat: 5

Cyberware
Cybereyes with Low-Light
Radio Receiver
Wired Reflexes: 1

Contacts
Choose (2) Contacts

Gear

Ares Predator (with external smartlink, 20 rounds regular ammo)
Armor Jacket (5/3)
Ingram Valiant LMG (with external smartlink, 100 rounds regular
ammo)
Knife
Smart Goggles
Throwing Knife
Starting Cash: 1|2,750¥

 
 

RIGGER

“We were screaming down the dunes when Oldfield’s t-bird
lifted skirts. Fool thought we had cleared the sight line for their
AVMs. Paid for his stupidity. Cost the company two mil on that bird.
Oldfield never could slide her down the path the way a rigger’s got
to. We pulled it out, though. | canceled the rocket team with a
twitch of the old trigger muscle and roared my turtle past their sec
teams and scrambled the reins before they could hit the main force.
Got a nice bonus for that scrap. Good ratings on the first-run circuit,
too. Old EBM2 appreciates quality workmanship. Just wanted you
to understand what kind of quality you're talking to here.

“Most people don’t understand us riggers. Never will, | sup-
pose. You just have to feel it, the adrenalin rush when you rev the old
turbines, the air howling over your hull. Ain’t nothing like it.”

Commentary: The rigger is a specialized breed of console
cowgirl. She trades all normal sensations for the input of a cyber-
netic link-up, typically to a vehicle or a security system. Jacked into
her vehicle, the revving of the engine becomes her heartbeat, and
the flow of fuel the adrenalin rush. Here she is one with her machine;
yet at the end of a run she can separate her perceptions from the
machine and walk away without giving it another thought.

Attributes Skills
Body: 5 Bike: 4
Quickness: 6 Car: 5
Strength: 4 Computer: 3
Charisma: 4 Electronics: 3
Intelligence: 6 Etiquette (Corp): 1
Willpower: 5 Firearms: 2
Essence: 1.35 Gunnery: 4
Reaction: 6 (10)* Ground Vehicles (B/R): 2
Initiative: 6 (10)* + 1D6 (3D6)*
Dice Pools
Combat: 8
Control: 6 (10)*
Cyberware
Cybereyes with Low-Light, Flare Protection, and Thermographic Imag-
ing
Datajack
Radio
Smartlink
Vehicle Control Rig: 2
Contacts
Choose (2) Contacts
Gear
(2) Surveillance Drones (rigged, with remote gear)
Ares Predator (with external smartlink, 20 rounds regular ammo)
Armor Jacket (5/3)
DocWagon Contract (Platinum)
Eurocar Westwind 2000 (rigged, with concealed LMG, 1,000 rounds
of belted ammo, and a two-shot Missile Launcher (2 AVMs))
Hunter-Spotter Drone (with 2 LMGs and 1,000 rounds of regular
belted ammo; remote gear, rigged)
Middle Lifestyle
Patrol Vehicle (with 2 LMGs and 1,000 rounds of regular belt-fed
ammo; remote gear)
Remote Control Deck (with three slave ports)
Starting Cash: 10,315¥
“Applies only when rigged.

 

 

SHADOWRUN 59
ddd ddA hid hd

Le

[7]

SLL.

ARCHETYPES

SHAMAN

“I am the one you seek. Step closer. Do not be afraid. My
medicine is strong, but you will not be harmed if you have no
evil intentions toward me.

“I knew you were coming. My totem whispered it to me. It is
always need that brings them to me. Speak of your desire, that

| may gauge your intent.
“If your desire is in accord with the land and the spirits, | can
help you. Those who aid and guide me can then be called to
come to your aid. There will be a price, but it shall be a just
price suited to what is done and what you can pay.”
Commentary: The shaman treads the
path of the spirits. Festooned with fetishes and
the implements of his trade, he walks the land,
in tune with its spirit and seeking to preserve
its harmony. More than the ordinary mage, he
abhors the encroachment of technology, es-
pecially that which invades the body.

  


Attributes Skills
Body: 3 Armed Combat: 3
Quickness: 3 Conjuring: 6
Strength: 3 Etiquette (Tribal): 4
Charisma: 5 Magical Theory: 3
Intelligence: 4 Sorcery: 5
Willpower: 6 Stealth: 3
Essence: 6
Magic: 6
Reaction: 3
Initiative: 3 + 1D6
Dice Pools
Combat: 6
Magic: 5
Cyberware
None
Contacts
Choose (2) Contacts
Gear
Knife
Leather Clothing (0/2)
Medicine Lodge Materials: 2

Street Lifestyle
Spells
Choose one of the following orientations:
Fighter: Deceiver:
Mana Bolt: 4 Chaos: 4
Powerball: 6 Confusion: 5
Sleep: 5 Entertainment: 3
Healer: Mask: 3
Heal 6 Detector:
Hibernate: 4 Analyze Device: 4
Treat: 5 Clairvoyance: 3
Detect Enemies: 3
Detect Magic: 5

Starting Cash: 10,315¥
Note: A shaman must select a wilderness totem. See the

Magic chapter for details.

 
 

STREET MAGE

“The streets are where the life is. Life, ya know. The very stuff
of magic.

“Those wage mages caught in the corporate rat race just don’t
understand. You got the power, you take it out and use it. For
yourself. For the people. Slotting the clock to turn nuyen for the corp
is like selling your body, chummer. You prostitute the magic.

“I tried their way for a while, you know. But my eyes got
opened when | saw the suits and the clock like a tombstone for the
future. They didn’t have anything to teach me, so | flew. Got out
where the life is. They shook their wise old heads and invoked the
mighty bottom line. What fossil brains!

“Look around you. It's life, you know. We’ re all a part of it, and
it’s the real power. I'm going to ride that power, chummer. All the
way to the heavens.”

Commentary: The street mage has left the path of rigorous
magical study, seeking his own path of enlightenment and perfec-
tion at street level. He has all the heart, energy, and
stubbornness of youth. He knows his way will change the
world for the better, even if he must engage in activities
that seem to contradict his goals. He is sure that everything
will all work out in the end.

Attributes Skills
Body: 3 Bike: 2
Quickness: 3 Conjuring: 6
Strength: 2 Etiquette (Street): 4
Charisma: 3 Firearms: 2
Intelligence: 4 Magical Theory: 5
Willpower: 5 Sorcery: 6
Essence: 6 Stealth: 3
Magic: 6 Unarmed Combat: 2
Reaction: 3

Initiative: 3 + 1D6

Dice Pools
Combat: 6
Magic: 6

Cyberware
None

Contacts
Choose (2) Contacts

Gear
Armor Clothing (3/0)

Ritual Sorcery Materials (4 Points for Detect or Illusion Spells)

Streetline Special Pistol (with 10 rounds regular ammo)
Spells

Choose one orientation from the following:

Fighter: Deceiver:
Mana Bolt: 4 Chaos: 4
Powerball: 6 Confusion: 5
Sleep: 5 Entertainment: 3
Healer: Mask: 3
Heal 6 Detector:
Hibemate: 4 Analyze Device: 4
Treat: 5 Clairvoyance: 3
Detect Enemies: 3
Detect Magic: 5

Starting Cash: 10,300¥


SHADOWRUN 61
ARCHETYPES

STREET SAMURAI

“The streets may look like a mess to you, chummer. Just shows
that you ain't got eyes. Maybe you should take a trip to Chiba. | hear
they got a pair for everybody, so they must have a set for you. Let
you see it up close, real time. Like | do. I see the streets as the land
of opportunity for a charger. Possibilities everywhere for a guy with
an edge.

“What's my edge, you ask. Slot me if!'ll spill to you just for the
asking! Oh, I've got my edge all right. I’m still blowing air past my
teeth, ain't I? That's all the credentials a guy in my business needs.

“I've done shadowruns since...well, never mind since when.
| may be a street samurai, but I've got enough experience to handle
your work. What is it? Muscle down? Lift? Or just a straight-out
raid? Hum, your turn to keep it close. That's okay. | can respect that.
But you keep something from me that | need to know, and you'll
find out just how sharp my edge is. Didn't think you'd like that.”

Commentary: The street samurai can be male or female, but
sex has nothing to do with how tough a street samurai is. Born to
the metroplex, he’s as tough as its alloy steel bones and as
dangerous as ground glass. His augmentations are more than just
tools to him; they are his style, his badge of commitment to the hi-
tech life of the city. He’s chromed and proud of it. Bodyguard or
strongarm man, hired muscle or street soldier, he’s a lion of the
plex, a hunter in the shadows.

 
   

Attributes Skills

Body: 6 (8) Armed Combat: 3
Quickness: 4 (5) Bike: 2
Strength: 6 (7) Etiquette (Street): 4
Charisma: 2 Firearms: 5
Intelligence: 5 Stealth: 4
Willpower: 5 Unarmed Combat: 6
Essence: .1
Reaction: 5 (9)

Initiative: 9 + 3D6

Dice Pools
Combat: 7

Cyberware

Cybereyes with Low-Light

Dermal Plating: 2

Muscle Replacement: |

Retractable Hand Razors

Smartlink

Wired Reflexes: 2
Contacts

Choose (2) Contacts

Data Display (100 Mp of memory)
Armor Jacket (5/3)
Ares Predator (with external smartlink, 50 rounds of regular ammo)
DocWagon Contract (Platinum)
Harley Scorpion
Stun Baton
Uzi Ill (with external smartlink, sound suppressor, 100 rounds of
regular ammo)
Wrist Phone with flip-up screen
Starting Cash: 17,270¥

 
 

STREET SHAMAN


“Others will tell you that only on the land may you find the
spirits who guide and nurture. They are sadly wrong. They cling too
fervently to the old ways, the old tales. The future calls to all of us,
and we must walk new paths to reach it.

“| have found the spirits of the city, and they have power. They
lend their power to me, that | can work to see the new paths, that
I can walk strong and proud to meet the future.

“Talk to me of your problems. If there is a harmony with my
path, | can help you. Those who aid and guide me can be called to
your aid. There will be a price, but it shall be a just price suited to
what is done as well as your ability to pay.”

Commentary: The street shaman walks the path of the
spirits. Festooned with fetishes and the implements of his
trade, he haunts the metroplex, in tune with its spirit and seeking
to preserve its harmony. Unlike the ordinary shaman, he does not
abhor the encroachment of technology, although he finds no
personal solace in the fruits of the manufactured world. Like all
magicians, he avoids all technology which invades the body.

Attributes Skills
Body: 4 Conjuring: 5
Quickness: 3 Etiquette (Street): 3
Strength: 2 Firearms: 3
Charisma: 5 Magical Theory: 5
Intelligence: 4 Sorcery: 5
Willpower: 6 Stealth: 3
Essence: 6
Magic: 6
Reaction: 3
Initiative: 3 + 1D6
Dice Pools
Combat: 6
Magic: 5
Cyberware
None
Contacts
Choose (2) Contacts
Gear
Medicine Lodge Materials (1)
Medkit
Ruger Super Warhawk (with 10 rounds regular ammo)
Spells
Choose one orientation from the following:

Fighter: Deceiver:
Mana Bolt: 4 Chaos: 4
Powerball: 6 Confusion: 5
Sleep: 5 Entertainment: 3
Healer: Mask: 3
Heal 6 Detector:
Hibemate: 4 Analyze Device: 4
Treat: 5 Clairvoyance: 3
Detect Enemies: 3
Detect Magic: 5

Starting Cash: | | ,305¥
Note: A street shaman must select an urban totem. See the Magic chapter

for details.

 

 

SHADOWRUN 63
 

 

TRIBESMAN

“The land is the life of the world. For too many years, we have
forsaken our proper role, abandoned our task as guardians. This
is our shame. We must now take up the mantle again. The
shamans understand this. They are wise men.
“Years ago, the Great Ghost Dance promised our fathers
salvation. It was so, but not as our fathers foresaw it. The Great
Spirit has a deeper plan. He has given us much to aid us in our work.
We must provide the rest. We will only see the land prosper if we
work to aid it. The old ways are forever gone, but that is not bad.
There are new ways now, but that too is not bad. We walk a path
between the old and the new; a path of our own choosing, one
that will lead us to greatness and the fulfillment of our dreams as
long as we do not neglect or forsake the land.
“l walk now in the shadows of the towers of steel and glass
rather than the shadow of the trees. It is a stalker's path,
sometimes a warrior’s path. Always | strive to make it a path
of honor and wisdom.”
Commentary: The tribesman is a member of one of
the local tribes, possibly metahuman, scattered through-
out the wilderness. He believes in the sanctity of the land
and of the body.

Attributes Skills
Body: 5 Armed Combat: 5
Quickness: 5 Biology: 3
Strength: 5 Biotech: 3
Charisma: 5 Etiquette (Tribal): 4
Intelligence: 5 Projectile Weapons: 6
Willpower: 5 Stealth: 6
Essence: 6 Special Skills:
Reaction: 5 Horseback Riding: 3
Initiative: 5 + 1D6
Dice Pools
Combat: 7
Cyberware
None
Contacts
Choose (2) Contacts
Gear
3 Antidote (4) Patches
Binoculars
Bow and 20 Arrows
Knife
Low-Light Goggles
Medkit
Real Leathers
Street Lifestyle
Survival Kit
Trang Patch (5)
Trauma Patch
Starting Cash: 12,495¥
Notes: The tribesman may call on 2D6 members of his
tribe for help.

 

64 SHADOWRUN
   

ARCHETYPES


SHADOWRUN 65
edi a ea ay

 

 

If you did it and lived, then you probably did it right.
— KW, Freelancer

hen trying to accomplish something more refined than hefting a load, spotting an
ambush, or running for cover, a character will normally use a skill. Shadowrun skills
are groups of closely related techniques and knowledge, not narrow, limiting areas
of function. The game takes this approach in an attempt to keep down the number
of statistics. If a character uses Concentrations and Specializations, he or she has
increased capability in that specialized area, but at the cost of reduced ability in the
rest of the functions covered by the general skill.

SKILL RATINGS

 

Skill ratings begin at a level of 1. There is no maximum rating, but players will
find it increasingly difficult to raise their character’s skill ratings as the character
improves in a particular skill. Beginning characters may not start with any skill at
a rating higher than 6. Characters with no rating in a skill are considered untrained,
but they may still attempt to perform a function covered by a skill in one of two
ways: by using a related skill or by defaulting to an attribute. To do so, they must
use the Skill Web, on p. 69.

SUCCESS TESTS

The rules make frequent reference to Success Tests. To make a Success Test for
a skill, use the numerical rating of the skill named for the test as the number of six-
sided dice to roll. Each individual die result that equals or exceeds the specified
target number is a success. Usually one success is enough to indicate that the
character has passed the test.

 

66 SHADOWRUN
SKILLS



There are two kinds of tests. In a success test, the character is
attempting to accomplish something without any interference. Roll
the dice as described above; any successes generated directly
determine the effect of the skill’s use. Often, when one character is
attempting to attack another character (or object), the target also
makes a standard test and uses his or her successes to offset those the
attacker rolled. Exactly how those successes are offset varies with the
type of attack.

In an opposed test, two characters use the same skill, or an
opposing skill, against one another, with only one of them able to
actually succeed in the effort. Usually, the character generating the
greater number of successes achieves his goal. Negotiation is a
typical situation for this type of test.

Using the Skill Success Table as a guide, the gamemaster determines
the target number necessary for success. The rules usually specify a
target number for specific skill uses. Circumstances and conditions
(bad weather, stress, and so on) can change the target number.

Tests for Attributes are handled in the exact same manner as for
skills, where the number of dice rolled is based on the Attribute
Rating.

SKILL SUCCESS TABLE
Difficulty Target Number
Simple 2
Routine 3
Average 4

Challenging 5
Difficult

Strenuous

Extreme

Nearly Impossible

TAKING THE TIME

Characters sometimes use skills and Attributes for activities that
do not have immediate results, such as fixing a car, building some-
thing, and so on. The gamemaster determines how long such a task
should take. This number is known as the base time. The total
successes rolled in the Skill Test (each die that equals or exceeds the
target number) are divided into the base time, with fractions rounded
to the nearest whole time unit (2.66 hours counts as 3 hours). Thus,
if a job typically takes 10 hours (the base time), and the character rolls
3 successes (10 + 3 = 3.3), the task would take three hours.

Fastjack slipped the chip-puller back into its slot in his
microtronics tool kit, gave it a pat, and smiled. He had just
finished repairing the telecom for Sally Tsung in record time.

Fastjack, the legendary decker, has just finished a task
using his Electronics (B/R) Skill, which has a Rating of 7. The
gamemaster had assigned a base time of 10 hours for the
job, based on his assessment of the modifications Fastjack
wanted to include and a Target Number of 4. The decker
rolled successes with 4 of his 7 dice (10 + 4 = 2.5, which
rounds to 3). He finishes the job in three hours.

 

 

THE SKILL WEB

Almost every skill is related to one or more other skills by a
network of relationships called the Skill Web. Using the web allows
characters with one skill to better perform functions properly
belonging to another skill. They will, of course, not be as likely to
succeed at their task as someone who has the proper skill.

There are two ways to use the Skill Web: by using a related skill
or defaulting to an Attribute.

When using a related skill, trace a path from the desired skill to
one in which the character has a rating. It is not necessary to trace
the shortest path. Count the number of circles passed, with each
circle increasing the target number by +2.

When defaulting to an Attribute, go to the desired Attribute’s
position on the web and trace a path from it to the listing for the
desired skill. Again, each circle passed in tracing the path adds an
additional +2 to the target number. (No one ever said it would be
easy.)

It is only possible to trace a path in the direction of the arrows.
Ifa player encounters an arrow pointing in a direction opposite to the
path he or she is tracing when moving from skill to skill, or Attribute
to skill, that path is blocked. He must find another way. Some skills
simply do not connect to other skills or to some Attributes.


 

68 SHADOWRUN
QUICKNESS

Athletics
Stealth

Firearms -@® (B/R)
Gunnery -® (B/R)
Projectile -® (B/R)
Throwing -®- (B/R)
STRENGTH Armed Combat —@- (B/R)

INTELLIGENCE

Demolitions

Physical Sciences
Computer (B/R)
Electronics ————@— (B/R) Computer Theory

Unarmed Combat

Cybertechnology
Biotech (B/R)

CHARISMA =

Lb hi

eadership Military Theory
Interrogation Psychology
Negotiation Sociology
Etiquette

REACTION enc O
Ground Vehicles (B/R)
Hovercraft

Bike Sorcery

Car
Boats (B/R)
Motorboat
Sailboat
Aircraft (B/R)
Winged
Rotor

Vector Thrust

 

SHADOWRUN 69
N)4 15

CONCENTRATIONS AND
SPECIALIZATIONS

Players have the option of giving their character a Concentra-
tion in a particular form of a skill, i-e., the character has spent most
of his or her study and practice time on mastering that form of the
skill. By narrowing his focus this way, the character obviously
cannot give as much attention to related forms. For example, two
characters who have the same ratings in Stealth will have different
effective ratings if one of them Concentrates in Stealth (Urban). The
urban fellow will be better than the other guy on the city streets, but
worse in the wilderness.

Characters who have Concentrated in a skill have that skill at
one point higher than the general skill that normally governs it. At
the same time, the rating of the general skill is reduced by 1. For
example, a character with a Firearms (the general skill) Rating of 5,
who has Concentrated in SMG (one of the possible Concentrations)
ends up with an SMG Rating of 6 (5 + 1) and a Firearms Rating of 4
(5 — 1). Thus, any time the character uses an SMG, the player rolls
6 dice. If the character uses another type of firearm (rifle, pistol, and
so on), he would only roll four dice.

Specialization takes the process one step further, narrowing
the character's skill to a particular item or activity. Use of a
Specialized skill adds +2 to the original general skill rating (which,
in turn, is reduced by 2 points). At the same time, the character
gains a Concentration governing the Specialization at a rating equal
to the original general skill rating. If the character in the above
example Specialized in Uzi Ill (a type of SMG), he would have ended
up with a Uzi Ill Rating of 7, an SMG Rating of 5 (the Concentration
equal to the original rating), and Firearms Skill Rating of 3.

A Specialization is usually listed in parentheses after the skill
name. All these numerical gymnastics are relevant only during
character creation, when players are determining their characters’
starting skills (see p. 45). Once the game has begun, skill advance-
ment is handled according to the Karma rules on p. 190. Starting
characters are allowed only one Concentration and one Specializa-
tion per skill. When referring to the Skill Web, use only the general
skill rating, never a Concentration or Specialization rating.

SKILL CATEGORIES

Shadowrun groups skills into five broad categories: Active,
Build and Repair, Knowledge, Languages, and Special Skills. All
have ratings that improve as the character becomes more experi-
enced. The description of each skill includes a list of suggested
Concentrations. Players can create others subject to gamemaster
approval. Possible Specializations appear in parentheses after the
Concentration name. Other Specializations can also be created with
the gamemaster’s approval.

ACTIVE SKILLS

Active Skills usually apply toward achieving a specific, short-
term result such as hitting a target with a weapon, performing a
difficult maneuver in a vehicle, climbing a wall, casting a spell, and
so forth. These skills also involve some form of active, physical
activity.

An Active Skill includes maintenance of equipment commonly
needed to use the skill and includes the user’s understanding of the
skill’s application. An Active Skill does not include the ability to
design new equipment. To simplify the use of the Skill Web, active
skills are arranged into groups, which makes it easier to see which
skills are related.

Combat Skills

Most Combat Skills have the designation “SW” in parenthesis.
This means that the character can choose to Specialize in any
specific weapon (SW) from the Concentration group.

Armed Combat

Armed Combat Skill governs the use of hand-held melee
weapons.

Concentrations: Edged Weapons (SW), Pole Arms/Staff (SW),
Whips/Flails (SW), Clubs (SW)

Unarmed Combat

Unarmed Combat Skill governs the use of martial arts tech-
niques and implant weapons. A Concentration for Martial Arts Style
(with a Specialization for specific techniques) is listed below. This
Concentration (e.g., tae kwon do) and Specialization (hand strikes)
is only appropriate for use in the game when both the player and
gamemaster understand the specifics of the desired style, including
its forms and limitations.

Concentrations: Subduing Combat, Cyber-Implant Weaponry
(SW), Martial Arts Style (Specific Technique)

Demolition

Demolition Skill governs the preparation, measuring, and
setting of chemical explosives.

Concentrations: Commercial Explosives, Plastic Explosives

Firearms

Firearms Skill governs the use of all types of firearms, from
pistols to grenade launchers.

Concentrations: Pistols (SW), Rifles (SW), Submachine Guns
(SW). Light Machine Guns (SW), Grenade Launchers (SW), Tasers
(SW)

Gunnery
Gunnery Skill governs the use of heavy weapons, whether on
tripods, vehicle mounts, pintles, or in fixed emplacements.
Concentrations: Machine Guns (SW), Missile/Rocket Launch-
ers (SW), Assault Cannon (SW), Vehicle-Mounted Cannon (SW)

Projectile Weapons

Projectile Weapons govem the use of muscle-powered projec-
tile weapons.

Concentrations: Bows (SW), Crossbows (SW)

Throwing Weapons

Throwing weapons govern the use of weapons thrown by the
user.

Concentrations: Shafted (SW), Non-Aerodynamic (Grenades,
Knives), Aerodynamic (Shuriken, Airfoil Grenades)

 

70 SHADOWRUN
SKILLS

Physical Skills

Physical Skills require agility and general body control, strength,
and stamina. A character’s load has a large effect on his Physical
Skills. See Behind the Scenes, p. 185, for more details.

Athletics

Athletics Skill governs exceptional training in a particular
aspect of physical endeavor. Specialization involves increasing
one’s Concentration, rather than working in a specific form. Thus, a
character Specializing in Climbing applies +2 to his Athletics Rating
when climbing and —2 when using a different Athletics Concentra-
tion.

Concentrations: Running, Climbing, Lifting, Jumping, Swim-
ming

Stealth
Stealth Skill governs sneaking around, moving quietly, track-
ing (and covering one’s tracks), secretly trailing another character,
or giving a tail the shake. Each aspect of the skill may become a
Specialization for any environmental Concentration.
Concentrations: Urban (by aspect), Wilderness (by aspect),
Farmland (by aspect)


 

Technical Skills
Technical Skills deal with all types of machines, including
electronics and those implanted into the body.

Biotech

Biotech Skill governs basic medicine, first aid, and implant
operations. A character with this skill understands basic medicine
in ahands-on sense, as a paramedic rather than a physician. Though
familiar with the techniques and materials of cyberware, a character
with this skill would still need a computer expert to collaborate on
the interface systems.

Concentrations: Transimplant Surgery (Headware, Bodyware,
Organic Replacements), Organ Culture (by organ or limb), Replace-
ment Construction (by organ or limb), Extended Care, First Aid

Computer

Computer Skill governs the use and understanding of com-
puter technology and programming. This skill is absolutely essen-
tial to anyone who wishes to jack into cyberspace and run the
Matrix.

Concentrations: Hardware (Mainframes, Micros, Interface Tech,
Implant Tech), Software (Decking, Matrix Programming, Non-
Matrix Programming, Interface Programming, Implant Program-
ming)

Electronics

Electronics Skill governs the use and understanding of elec-
tronic devices, which, in the 2050s, is most everything in common
use in a city. Specialization involves increasing the depth of
Concentration, as in Athletics. Thus, Specializing in Maglocks
applies a +2 to that Concentration but a —2 to all other Electronics
Concentrations.

Concentrations: Control Systems, Electronic Warfare, Maglocks,
Linking between Devices, Diagnostics

Magical Skills

Anyone may study Magical Skills for the inherent knowledge,
but only a magician can use these skills to manipulate magical
energy. See the Magic chapter, p. 116, for full details.

Conjuring

Conjuring Skill governs the calling and banishing of spirit pow-
ers. Only mages can call elementals, and only shamans can call nature
spirits.

Concentrations: Elemental (Type), Nature Spirit (Type)

Sorcery

Sorcery Skill governs the control of magical energy in the form
of spells.

Concentrations: Spellcasting (by Spell Category), Ritual Sor-
cery (by Spell Category)

 

SHADOWRUN 71
SKILLS

Social Skills

Social Skills concern the interaction of the player characters and
non-player characters. For interaction among player characters, the
players should rely on their real social skills, though they can
request, or the gamemaster insist, that the actual interaction be

 

Etiquette

Etiquette is a special kind of skill that requires a Concentration.
Each Concentration represents a particular subculture. Etiquette Skill
allows a character to function within the subculture without appearing
out of place. It also allows the character to recognize prominent
figures within the subculture and to have a general idea of their
strengths, weaknesses, likes, and dislikes. Attempting to manipulate
someone within a subculture by using Etiquette Skill uses the
subject's Charisma Rating as a target number.

Specializations of Etiquette differ with the subcultures. A Con-
centration of Etiquette (Street) would have Specializations in each
gang, criminal elements. and so on. Particular tribes, specific tribal
interests, or inter-tribal politics would be appropriate Specializations
for Etiquette (Tribal). Particular corporations, corporate hirelings, and
inter-corporate relations apply to Etiquette (Corporate).

Concentrations: Corporate, Matrix, Media, Street, Tribal

Interrogation

Interrogation Skill governs the extraction of information from
an unwilling subject. It uses the subject's Willpower Rating as a
target number. It is usually ineffective when applied against more
than a single subject at a time.

Concentrations: Verbal, Machine-Aided (Lie Detectors, Voice-
Stress Analysis)

Leadership

Leadership Skill governs a character's ability to get others to do
his bidding through the exercise of example and authority. It Includes
an aspect of problem-solving, but is not intended to substitute for
clear thinking and good planning on the part of the players. Leader-
ship skill uses the subject's Intelligence Rating as a target number.

Concentrations: Political, Military, Commercial (Specializations
for each Concentration include Strategy (general plans), Tactics
(topical plans), and Morale)

Negotiation

Negotiation Skill governs any interactions in which each side
seeks to come out ahead, either through careful and deliberate
bartering or through fast talk. It uses the adversary’s Willpower
Rating as a target number.

Concentrations: Bargain, Bribe, Fast Talk

 

Vehicle Skills

The type of vehicle in use and the driver's familiarity with it
affect the chance of success when a character attempts a difficult
maneuver or takes the vehicle through difficult terrain and condi-
tions. Ordinary operation of the vehicle requires no die roll. In fact,
many 21st-century vehicles can operate almost on their own.

Most Vehicle Skills have a Concentration of Remote Operation.
This refers to vehicles whose operator is not present during the
vehicle’s operation. The vehicle responds to transmitted orders.
Specialization in a Remote Operation Concentration specifies a
Concentration category, not a specific vehicle (SV).

Bike

Bike Skill governs the use of all motorcycles, motortrikes, and
bikes with sidecars.

Concentration: Two-wheeler (SV), Three-wheeler (SV), Racing
(SV)

Car
Car Skill refers to a motor vehicle with four or more wheels.
Concentrations: Passenger Vehicle (SV), Truck (SV), Racing
(SV), Remote Operation (Category)

Hovercraft

Hovercraft Skill governs all hover vehicles, regardless of their
purpose.

Concentrations: Passenger Craft (SV), Transport Craft (SV),
Racing (SV), Remote Operation (Category)

Motorboat
Motorboat Skill refers to any motorized watercraft.
Concentrations: Pleasure Craft (SV), Transport (SV), Racing
(SV), Remote Operation (Category)

Rotor Craft
Rotor Craft Skill refers to fixed- and tilt-rotor aircraft.
Concentrations: Tilt-Rotor (SV), Fixed-Rotor (SV), Remote Op-
eration (Category)

Sailboat
Sailboat Skill govems the control of sail-powered watercraft.
Concentrations: Pleasure Craft (SV), Transport (SV), Racing (SV)

Vectored Thrust

Vectored Thrust Skill encompasses aircraft relying on vectored
thrust for lift and propulsion. This includes low-altitude vehicles
(known colloquially as thunderbirds), military craft that use this
motive power but do not normally operate at altitude because of
their heavy loads or armor and armament.

Concentrations: Vertical Take-Off and Landing (SV), LAV Craft
(SV), Remote Operation (Category)

Winged Plane
Winged Plane Skill governs the control of fixed- or swing-wing
aircraft (jet, prop, or turbo prop) and unpowered aircraft.
Concentrations: Gliders (SV). Jets (SV), Propellers (SV), Racing
(SV), Remote Operation (Category)

 

72 SHADOWRUN
 

 

BUILD AND REPAIR SKILLS

There is a corresponding Build/Repair (B/R) Skill for many of the
Active Skills. The B/R counterpart implies the character’s access to
the tools and/or equipment commonly used in that skill area. Thus,
Armed Combat (B/R) allows a character to make or repair swords
and other melee weapons. Ground Vehicles (B/R) allows him to
repair a car, a bike, or a hovercraft equally well.

The character still needs time, tools, and materials to build
something from scratch. Even a character with superb levels of skill
can do little without the proper equipment. If the character is trying
to build something new, he or she also needs theoretical knowl-
edge to design the item, unless someone else provides a detailed
blueprint for its construction. See Behind the Scenes for details on
how to use Build and Repair Skills.

Concentrations for Build/Repair Skills refer to types of equipment
when they relate to named skills, and to the category of equipment
when they apply to groups of skills. Thus, a Concentration in Armed
Combat (B/R) works for Edged Weapons but not for other melee
weapons, and a Concentration in Ground Vehicles (B/R) might be
Bikes, but not include Car and Hovercraft.

If a Build/Repair Skill is available, it will be to the general skill,
and separated by only one circle on the Skill Web.

KNOWLEDGE SKILLS

Knowledge Skills give a character access to specific informa-
tion. This is especially useful when the character is an expert in a
field in which the player is ignorant.

LLS

Many Knowledge Skills also provide the character with the
theoretical basis of actions related to the field of study and the basis
for new designs in an area.

Biology
Biology Skill covers the general life sciences. Specializations

include all the specific branches of each discipline, which are too
numerous to list here.

Concentrations: Zoology, Botany, Medicine, Parazoology,
Parabotany

Computer Theory

Computer Theory Skill governs computer design and architec-
ture.

Concentrations: Hardware (Mainframes, Micros, Interface Tech,
Implant Tech), Software (Decking, Matrix Programming, Non-
Matrix Programming, Interface Programming, Implant Program-
ming), Matrix Theory

Cybertechnology

Cybertechnology Skill covers the design of implant and cyber-
netic control technology. Specializations are available for specific
devices (SD).

Concentrations: Headware (SD), Bodyware (SD)

Magical Theory
Magical Theory includes a general understanding of the func-
tions and functioning of magic. It is vital in the design of new spells.
Concentrations: Design (Shamanic, Hermetic), History (by
Continent)

Military Theory
Military Theory covers theoretical studies of men in combat

and military organizations.
Concentrations: Military History (by continent or period),
Tactics (Air, Land, Sea)

Physical Sciences

This skill includes engineering as well as the physical sciences.
Specializations are the various branches of each discipline, which
are too numerous to list here.

Concentrations: Engineering, Physics, Chemistry, Geology

Psychology

Psychology includes the behavioral science in its analytical and
predictive forms. Specializations are for specific types of behavior
and personality types.

Concentrations: Individual Behavior, Group Behavior, Deviant
Behavior

Sociology

Sociology covers historical and observational sciences con-
ceming humans and human interactions. Specializations are by
continent or culture.

Concentrations: History, Anthropology, Archaeology

 

SHADOWRUN 73
LANGUAGE SKILLS

Language skills are an exception to the basic skills rule because
each specific language is a Specialization of a family of languages.
Thus, a character will have some facility with languages related to
his specific language, but will not be fluent in additional languages
within that family unless he or she also acquires Specializations in
those languages. Different language families are not considered to
be related.

When language Specializations are taken as part of character
generation, the Specialization Ratings automatically increase by +2.
The language family, as the equivalent of the general skill, would
have a skill rating of 4 less than the Language Rating itself. Any
modified rating less than 1 is treated as a 1.

Players should note that there are no formal troll, dwarf, or ork
languages. These characters use the languages of their mothers and
fathers, most of whom are human. These groups may often speak
a kind of patois, however.

Each language family is listed in bold type, followed by the
specific languages.

Algonkian: Algonkin, Arapaho, Blackfoot, Cheyenne, Cree, Micmac,
Mohican, Ojibwa, Shawnee, Wiyot, Yurok

Armenian

Athabascan: Apache, Chipewyan, Navaho

Baltic: Estonian, Latvian (Lettish), Lithuanian

Basque

Caddoan: Caddo, Pawnee, Wichita

Celtic: Breton, Irish Gaelic, Scottish Gaelic, Welsh

Chukchi

Common Tongues and Hybrids: City Speak (see Special Lan-
guages, below), Esperanto, Interlingua

Dravidian: Gondi, Kannada, Kurukh, Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu, Tulu
Elvish: See Special Languages, below

Eskimo

Finnic: Cheremis, Finnish, Karelian, Lapp, Livonian, Mordvin, Veps,
Votyak, Zyrian

Germanic: Afrikaans, Danish, Dutch, English, Flemish, German,
Icelandic, Norwegian, Swedish, Yiddish

Greek

Hamitic: Beja, Berber, Galla, Hausa (Chadic), Somali, Tuareg
Indic: Assamese, Bengali, Bhili, Gujarati, Hindi, Konkani, Marathi,
Oriya, Punjabi, Rajasthani, Sindhi, Sinhalese, Urdu

Indo-Iranian: Baluchi, Kurdish, Persian (Farsi), Pushtu

Iroquoian: Cayuga, Cherokee, Erie, Huron, Iroquois, Mohawk,
Onandago, Oneida, Seneca, Tuscarora

Japanese

Khoisan: Bushman, Hadza, Hottentot, Nama, Sandawe

Korean

Malayo-Polynesian: Bahasa, Cebuano, Ilocano, Javanese, Kiriwina,
Madurese, Malayan, Maori, Melanesian, Micronesian, Misima,
Panay-Hiligaynon, Polynesian, Samar-Leyte, Samoan, Sundanese,
Tagalog, Taluga

Mayan: Guatemala, Kekchi, Mam, Quiché-Tzutujil-Cakchique,
Yucatan

Mon-Khmer (Annamite): Cambodian (Khmer), Mon, Vietnamese
(Annamese)

Mongolic: Khalkha (Mongolian)

Muskhogean: Chickasaw, Choctaw, Creek, Seminole

Niger-Kordofanian (Bantu): Anyi, Ashanti, Azande, Bassa, Baule,
Bemba, Birom, Bulu, Efik, Ewe, Fang, Fante, Fula, Ganda, Ibo, Igbo,
Kikuyu, Kituba, Kongo, Kpele, Kru, Luba, Lunda, Makua, Mande,
Mbundu, Mende, More, Mossi, Ngala, Ngbaudi, Nyamwezi-
Sukuma, Nyanja, Rundi, Rwanda, Shona, Sotho, Sukuma, Swahili,
Temne, Tiv, Tswana, Twi, Wolof, Xhosa, Yao, Yoruba, Zande, Zulu
Nilotic: Bagirmi, Dinka, Fur, Kanembu, Kanuri, Koman, Luo, Maban,
Masai, Nuer, Sango, Shilluk, Songhai, Wadai

Oto-Manguan: Mixtec, Otomi, Zapotec

Papuan: Dayak, Negrito, Papu

Romance: Catalan, French, Galician, Italian, Portuguese, Provencal,
Rumanian, Spanish

Salish: Chehalis, Okanagon, Salish

Semitic: Amharic, Arabic, Harari, Hebrew, Neo-Aramaic, Tigré,
Tigrinya

Sino-Tibetan: Burmese, Cantonese, Hakka, Kashmiri, Lao, Manda-
rin, Min, Nepali, Shan, Thai, Tibetan, Wu, Yueh

Siouan: Catawba, Crow, Dakota, Hidatsa, Omaha, Osage

Slavic: Bulgarian, Belorussian, Czech, Georgian, Macedonian, Pol-
ish, Russian, Serbo-Croatian, Slovak, Slovene, Ukrainian

South American Indian: Arowakan, Cariban, Quechua, Tupi-Gua-
rani, many others

Tlinglit

Tsimshian

Tungus

Turkic: Azerbaijani, Chuvash, Kazakh, Kirghiz, Tatar, Turki, Turkish,
Uzbek, Yakut

Ugrian: Magyar (Hungarian), Ostyak, Vogul

Uto-Aztecan: Aztec, Comanche, Hopi, Paiute, Papago, Pima,
Shoshoni, Ute

Zuni

SPECIAL LANGUAGES

City Speak is one of several languages that are not part of any
formal language group.

Elvish, known more formally as Sperethiel, has been gaining
popularity in recent years. Linquists who have studied the language's
form and content can find no direct connections to existing lan-
guage groups, though apparent derivations exist in Sperethiel’s
structure and style. The language apparently first came into use
shortly after the founding of Tir Tairngire.

As stated above, orks, trolls, dwarfs, and other groups that
commonly live together in certain neighborhoods may frequently
develop their own informal patois.

SPECIAL SKILLS

Special skills is a catch-all category of skills intended to round
out a character as an individual. These include hobbies, interests,
artistic endeavors, and other unique skills. be creative.

 

 

74 SHADOWRUN
SKILL TABLE
Combat Skills
Armed Combat
Clubs (SW)
Edged Weapons (SW)
Pole Arms/Staff (SW)
Whips/Flails (SW)
Demolitions
Commercial Explosives
Plastic Explosives
Firearms
Grenade Launchers (SW)
Light Machine Guns (SW)
Pistols (SW)
Rifles (SW)
Submachine Guns (SW)
Tasers (SW)
Gunnery
Assault Cannon (SW)
Machine Guns (SW)
Missile/Rocket Launchers (SW)
Vehicle-Mounted Cannon (SW)
Projectile Weapons
Bows (SW)
Crossbows (SW)
Throwing Weapons
Aerodynamic (Shuriken, Airfoil Grenades)
Non-Aerodynamic (Grenades, Knives)
Shafted (SW)
Unarmed Combat
Cyber Implant Weaponry (SW)
Martial Arts Style (Specific Technique)
Subduing Combat
Physical Skills
Athletics
Climbing
Jumping
Lifting
Running
Swimming
Stealth
Farmland (by aspect)
Urban (by aspect)
Wildemess (by aspect)
Magical Skills
Conjuring
Elemental (Type)
Nature Spirit (Type)
Sorcery
Ritual Sorcery (by Spell Category)
Spellcasting (by Spell Category)
Technical Skills
Biotech
Extended Care
First Aid
Organ Culture (by Organ or Limb)

SKILLS

Replacement Construction (by Organ or
Limb)

Transimplant Surgery (Headware,
Bodyware, Organic Replacements)

Computer

Hardware (Mainframes, Micros, Interface
Tech, Implant Tech)

Software (Decking, Matrix Programming,
Non-Matrix Programming, Interface
Programming, Implant Programming)

Electronics

Control Systems

Diagnostics

Electronic Warfare

Linking between Devices

Maglocks

Social Skills
Etiquette

Corporate

Matrix

Media

Street

Tribal

Interrogation

Machine-Aided (Lie Detectors, Voice-
Stress Analysis)

Verbal

Leadership

Commercial (Specializations for each con-
centration include Strategy (general
plans), Tactics (topical plans), and Mo-
rale)

Military

Political

Negotiation

Bargain

Bribe

Fast Talk

Vehicle Skills
Bike

Racing (SV)

Two-wheeler (SV)

Three-wheeler (SV)

Car

Passenger Vehicle (SV)

Racing (SV)

Remote Operation (Category)

Truck (SV)

Hovercraft

Passenger Craft (SV)

Racing (SV)

Remote Operation (Category)

Transport Craft (SV)

Motorboat
Pleasure Craft (SV)
Racing (SV)

Remote Operation (Category)
Transport (SV)
Rotor Craft
Fixed-Rotor (SV)
Remote Operation (Category)
Tilt-Rotor (SV)
Sailboat
Pleasure Craft (SV)
Racing (SV)
Transport (SV)
Vectored Thrust
LAV Craft (SV)
Remote Operation (Category)
Vertical Take Off and Landing (SV)
Winged Planes
Gliders (SV)
Jets (SV)
Propellers (SV)
Racing (SV)
Remote Operation (Category)
Knowledge Skills
Biology
Botany
Medicine
Parabotany
Parazoology
Zoology
Computer Theory
Hardware (Mainframes, Micros, Interface
Tech, Implant Tech)
Matrix Theory
Software (Decking, Matrix Programming,
Non-Matrix Programming, Interface
Programming, Implant Programming)
Cybertechnology
Bodyware (SD)
Headware (SD)
Magical Theory
Design (Shamanic, Hermetic)
History (by Continent)
Military Theory
Military History (by Continent or Period)
Tactics (Air, Land, Sea)
Physical Sciences
Chemistry
Engineering
Geology
Physics
Psychology
Deviant Behavior
Group Behavior
Individual Behavior
Sociology
Anthropology
Archaeology
History

 

SHADOWRUN 75
ds ae

 

Guns. Guns. Guns. My life would be so dull without them.
—Wedge, mercenary

~ hen it’s time to get down to combat between characters, the Shadowrun game
proceeds in turns. Each character acts in order, the fastest first, in a set sequence
known as the Combat Turn. The Combat Turn attempts to mimic what might occur
during real combat, resolving issues such as who acts first, who is faster on the draw,
what happens when one character punches another, and so on.

During the Combat Turn, which is roughly three seconds long, each player takes
turns describing his character's action. The gamemaster’s role is to describe the
actions and reactions of the non-player characters as well as the final outcome of
all actions.

The Combat Turn is divided into a variable number of Combat Phases. Based on
their Initiative, how fast they're reacting, characters may attempt actions during
one or more Combat Phases within a single Combat Turn. An action, as explained
in more detail later, is a character's attempt to do something. Firing a gun, casting
a magic spell, and activating a computer program are some typical actions.

These combat rules apply to player characters and non-player characters alike.
In those cases where a rule or procedure differs for one or the other, the specific rule
will always so indicate.

 

USING THESE RULES

Players need not attempt to completely understand the Combat Turn proce-
dures on their first read-through of the rules. Sections later in this chapter clarify
each step in greater detail. For now, simply read through the overview of the
Combat Turn sequence given below. When reading for the first time, players can
also ignore the references to other specific rules. These references will become

 

76 SHADOWRUN
 

SHADOWRUN 77
SO) TANI

relevant as the players become more familiar with the game and
begin to encounter more complex possibilities for action.

The rules relating to magic and decking during the Combat
Turn are presented in detail in the chapters covering those subjects.

COMBAT TURN SEQUENCE

The following is a quick summary of the Combat Tum se-
quence. This Combat Turn sequence is used to resolve all forms of
combat, be it hand-to-hand, ranged combat, firearms, magic,
vehicle combat, or Matrix combat.

All Dice Pools Refresh (First Combat Tum Only)

If this is the first Combat Tum of a new fight, all Dice
Pools of all involved characters refresh, unless this is a
Surprise situation (p. 86).

1. Determine Initiative

Determine Initiative (p. 79) (Reaction plus Initiative
dice) for all the characters, critters, spirits, or computer
programs involved in the fight. Then determine which
character has the highest Initiative total.

2. Characters Take Actions

Characters involved in the combat now take their
actions sequentially, starting with the character with the
highest Initiative total. This character is the acting character.
If more than one character has the same Initiative total, see
Initiative Tle, p. 79.

A. Acting Character’s Dice Pools Refresh
The Dice Pools of the acting character refresh. Ifhe or she has
used no dice from the pools, they remain at their current
value.

B. Declare Actions

The acting character declares his actions for the Combat
Phase. He may make Free, Simple, and Complex Actions,
in any order. If multiple characters are acting within one
Combat Phase (see Initiative Tle, p. 79), characters declare
their actions in reverse order, moving from the one with the
lowest Initiative total (or whatever is the determining value)
up to the character with the highest Initiative.

C. Resolve Actions
Resolve the actions (see p. 79) of the acting character. Once
the actions have been resolved, the character’s Initiative
total is reduced by 10. If the resulting Initiative total is higher
than O, the character may take additional actions later in the
Combat Tum. See Multiple Actions, p. 79. If it is equal to
O or less, the character is done for that Combat Tum. If
multiple characters are resolving actions during the same
phase, resolve those of the character with the highest
Initiative total (or whatever is the determining value) first,
then the next highest, and so on. (See Initiative Tle, p. 79.)

D. Declare and Resolve Actions of Remaining Char-
acters
Move on to the character with the next highest Initiative
total and resolve his actions, starting with step A above.
Continue cycling through steps A through D until no
character is eligible for actions.

3. Begin a New Combat Tum

Begin a new Combat Tum. starting again at step 1.
Continue cycling through steps 1 through 3 until the
combat is resolved. Any unused dice in a character's Dice
Pools carry over to the next Combat Tum and are available
for use until the character's first action of that tum.
COMBAT

INITIATIVE

Initiative determines the order in which characters take action
within a single Combat Turn. Initiative is based on two factors: the
character's total Initiative dice plus his adjusted Reaction Rating.
This is called the Initiative total, as explained below.

Each character begins with a base Initiative of one six-sided die
(1D6). Various types of cyberware and magic may add more dice.
A character’s total Initiative dice is listed in parenthesis following
the base number, e.g., 1D6 (2D6). In other words, this character has
two Initiative dice (2D6), one up from his base.

All characters have a base Reaction, which is equal to the
average of the character's Intelligence and Quickness Ratings
(round down). This number is modified by bonuses for magic or
cyberware or by penalties for injuries and the like. A character's
adjusted Reaction is listed in parenthesis following the base num-
ber, e.g., 4 (6).

In the Matrix, a decker’s Reaction and Initiative are modified
only by the presence of response increase circuitry (see Response
Increase, p. | 73) in the cyberdeck the character is using. No other
forms of Reaction or Initiative modifiers (other than injury modifiers,
p. 112) affect the character while in the Matrix.

While rigging, riggers receive only the modifications given
them by the vehicle control rig (p. 249) they are using. No other
Reaction or Initiative modifiers apply except for injury modifiers.

To get the character's Initiative total, add his adjusted Reaction
to the result of his Initiative roll. The number determines in which
Combat Phase the character may first attempt an action.

John Longbone, an ork street samurai, has a listed
Reaction of 3 (5) and an Initiative of 1D6 (2D6). (Longbone
has reaction-enhancing cyberware that increases his base
Reaction by 2, and gives him an additional Initiative die.)
Rolling his 2D6 Initiative dice, Longbone gets a 7, to which
he adds his adjusted Reaction, 5, for a result of 12. Combat
Phase 12 is the first one in which Longbone can act.

The number of Combat Phases in a Combat Turn is equal to the
highest Initiative total generated during the Initiative rolls. If, for
example, the highest Initiative total was 22, that Combat Turn
would have 22 Combat Phases. Events can occur in the first Combat
Phase (22) orin any of the following ones, Combat Phases 21-1. No
events or actions occur in Combat Phase 0, which signals the end
of that Combat Turn.

All events or actions within the Combat Turn must occur during
a Combat Phase. The gamemaster may need to determine, either
by decree or randomly, Initiative totals for some events that are
beyond character control. Events that occur at the end of a previ-
ously designated elapsed time, such as a timed explosive, always
occur last in the Combat Turn, after any actions are resolved.

GAMEMASTER NOTE: In any Combat Phase during which decking
actions are mixed with astral and or physical actions, the order for
resolving actions is all astral actions first, then all decking actions,
then all physical actions.

MULTIPLE ACTIONS

Depending on their Initiative total, characters may have mul-
tiple actions. As described above, each character takes his first
action in the Combat Phase that corresponds to the number of his
Initiative total. Characters become eligible for additional actions
every ten Combat Phases thereafter. The four sample characters
listed in the first columns below would be eligible for actions in the
Combat Phases listed in the third column.

Character Initiative Total Combat Phases
A 40 40, 30, 20, and 10
B 27 27, 17, and 7
Cc 12 12 and 2
D 8 8 only

Our friend Longbone, from the previous example,
would have his first action in Combat Phase! 2 (his Initia-
tive total) and a second in Combat Phase 2 (12 — 10). His
chummer, Shark, a street samurai with much better (and
much more expensive) cyberware has a Reaction of 5 (9)
and Initiative dice of 1D6 (3D6). If he gets an 18, the
maximum result from his Initiative dice roll, he has an
Initiative total of 27. Shark therefore can take actions in
Combat Phases 27, 17, and 7.

GAMEMASTER NOTE: When running through the Combat Turn
sequence, the gamemaster should ask the players which of their
characters has the next highest Initiative total. All should respond.
The gamemaster then compares their responses against the current
Initiative totals of any non-player characters involved in the fight. The
current Combat Phase then jumps to the number equal to the highest
Initiative total. Having the players respond keeps the Initiative totals
of their characters in their minds and should help to prevent a player
from missing the Combat Phase corresponding to his character's
current Initiative total. If a character misses a Combat Phase, his
actions are resolved following the resolution of any character's
actions currently in progress. It is the player's job to keep track of
when his or her character can act. The character can act again in the
Combat Phase equal to 10 less than the current Combat Phase.

INITIATIVE TIES

When multiple characters are eligible for actions in the same
Combat Turn, the character with the highest Initiative total declares
and resolves actions first, followed by the character with the next
highest, and so on. Ifsome characters have rolled the same Initiative
total, the tie goes to the one with the higher adjusted Reaction. If
that does still not break the tie, use the highest natural Reaction. If
that is still not good enough, assume that the actions of both
characters occur simultaneously.

When multiple characters have actions in the same phase, those
actions are declared in reverse order, from the lowest Initiative total
(or whatever the deciding value is) to the highest. This way, the faster
characters (even slightly so) are still reacting to the actions of the
other, slower, characters. When resolving actions, however, work
from the higher Initiative totals to the lower; the faster characters first.

 

SHADOWRUN 79


Jack Frost and Seventh Son, a street shaman, both
have the same Initiative total (15). Seventh Son’s adjusted
Reaction is 7, while Jack’s is 12, making Frost faster.
Seventh Son declares his actions (because he is the
slower), followed by Frost's declaration of his actions.
Because Frost is faster, his actions are resolved first.

DELAYING ACTIONS (OPTIONAL)

When the time for a character's action comes up in a Combat
Phase, the player may declare that he is delaying his character's
actions until a Combat Phase later in the Combat Turn. (The
procedure for declaring a Delayed Action is on p. 81.) By delaying,
the character chooses to wait until later in the Combat Turn to take
his action. While he awaits that moment, the character can do
nothing except make Free Actions normally (see p. 81). The benefit
of delaying action is that it allows the character to wait and respond
to something that may occur later in the turn.

When something finally does occur in a later Combat Phase to
which that character wishes to react, the player states that his
character is intervening. This mustoccur during the Declare Actions
portion of the Combat Phase, after all other characters acting in that
phase have declared actions. If any character's actions have begun
to be resolved, the delaying character can no longer intervene,
having waited too long. If multiple characters have delayed actions
and now wish to act in the same Combat Phase, use the rules for
Initiative Tie, above. In general, declare actions from the lowest
Initiative total to the highest for the characters who are acting
normally that phase, and then declare the actions of the delaying
characters in the same manner. Resolve the actions of the delaying
characters first, highest Initiative total to lowest, followed by the
actions of the other characters.

Bastion is waiting in ambush (he delayed from Com-
bat Phase 25). Crouched in a covering shadow, he watches
an alley for signs of activity. Finally, two men exit a door
across the way: they're the ones Bastion has been waiting
for. Now, on Combat Phase 12, Bastion takes his delayed
Combat Phase. Bastion’s actions are resolved first in this
Combat Phase, followed by the others. All three may act
again ten phases later.

Delaying the Action requires a Free Action to Initiate, but it
costs nothing to finally take the actions. Following the resolution of
the delaying character's actions, subtract 10 from his Initiative total.
If the result is greater than O, the character may act again that
Combat Turn. See Multiple Actions, p. 79.

If a character still has a delayed action at the end of a Combat
Turn, the Delayed Action carries over into the next Combat Turn.
The character’s Initiative total is determined using the normal
procedure. He may take the Delayed Action at any time during that
Combat Turn, even if the Combat Phase in which it occurs is at a
higher Initiative total than the delaying character's own.

Bastion, waiting in ambush elsewhere (he’s that kind
of guy), has carried over his Delayed Actions from the
previous Combat Turn. His Initiative total for the new
Combat Turn is 17, but his target appears in his sniper
rifle’s sights on Combat Phase 29. Because of the Delayed
Action, he may act now even though the Combat Phase
occurs before he would normally be allowed to do so.

The delayed action is resolved normally. The delaying charac-
ter may act again ten Combat Phases later or in the phase corre-
sponding to his new Initiative total for that Combat Turn, whichever
is less.

Dice Pools refresh in the Combat Phase during which the delay
is initiated. They do not refresh again when the character takes his
Delayed Action. If the character uses dice from any Dice Pool for any
reason while his Action is delayed, the delay is broken and the
Action does not occur. See Dice Pools, p. 84.

A character can have only one Delayed Action at any one time.

Following the resolution of his Delayed Action, Bas-
tion is not eligible for additional actions until the Combat
Phase corresponding to his Initiative total of 17, because
itis less than 19 (triggering Combat Phase 29 minus 10).
Had the trigger event occurred in Combat Phase 18
instead, Bastion could not act again until Combat Phase 8
(triggering Combat Phase 18 minus 10, which is less than
his own Initiative total of 17).

 

 

80 SHADOWRUN


ACTIONS

Characters can carry out three different action types within a
Combat Phase: Free, Simple, and Complex. A character can take
one Free Action, and either two Simple Actions or one Complex
Action as his or her action.

FREE ACTIONS

Free Actions are relatively simple, nearly automatic actions
that require little or no effort to accomplish. Examples are saying a
word, dropping an object, dropping prone, or casually looking at
something.

A character may take a Free Action during any Combat Phase
of the Combat Tum even if it is not a phase in which he is eligible
for action. Only one Free Action is possible during any given
Combat Phase. A character may NOT take a Free Action PRIOR to
his first action unless that character has delayed an action from a
previous Combat Turn, as described above.

Free Actions generally require no Success Test, though special
circumstances may warrant one. Following are descriptions of
many possible Free Actions involved in combat in Shadowrun.

Activate Cyberware

A character may use a Free Action to activate a piece of
cyberware that is not continually turned on. This equipment in-
cludes headware radio/telephone, thermographic vision, and so
on. See Cyberware, p. 246.

Call a Shot

A character may “call a shot” (aim for a vulnerable portion of
a target) with this Free Action. See Called Shots, p. 92. This action
must be immediately followed by a Take Aim, Fire Weapon, Throw
Weapon, or Melee Unarmed Attack.

Change Smartgun Fire Mode

Characters holding a ready smartgun (with smartlink headware)
may change their weapon's fire mode as a Free Action. See Fire
Mode, p. 92, and Smartlink, p. 90.

Delay Action

A character may delay an eligible action by expending a Free
Action. See Delaying Actions, p. 80. This Free Action is only
possible during a Combat Phase in which a character is eligible for
action. See Multiple Actions, p. 79.

Drop Prone

A character may drop prone at any time, as long as he is not
surprised (see p. 86). A character who is surprised may not drop
prone.

A magician sustaining a spell must make a Willpower (2) Test
to avoid losing concentration on the spell when dropping prone.

Drop Object

A character may drop a held object as a Free Action. If he is
holding objects in both hands, he may drop both objects as a single
Free Action.

 

Drop Sustained Spell
A magician may drop a sustained spell as a Free Action.

Eject Smartgun Clip

A character holding a ready smartgun (with smartlink headware)
may use a simple cybernetic command to eject the weapon’s clip.
It still takes a Simple Action to insert a new, fresh clip. See
Smartiink, p. 90.

Gesture

A character may execute one gesture as a Free Action.
(However ludicrous this may sound, it pertains primarily to the use
of gestures as silent communication in combat situations.)

Observe

A character may observe as a Free Action. See Perception, p.
185. A character who is observing can see only what is immediately
obvious, though active vision enhancements (low-light, thermo-
graphic) apply. No actual Perception Test is possible when observing
as a Free Action. (See also Observe In Detail under Simple Actions.)

Speak a Word

Each word spoken is a Free Action, but, for all practical purposes,
characters can speak in a coherent phrase or two when necessary. The
gamemaster may wish to enforce the single action—single word rule
in order to control excessive, unrealistic conversations within the
span of a Combat Tum (about three seconds.) Some gamemasters
and players may, however, prefer elaborate communication.

SIMPLE ACTIONS

A Simple Action is one step more complicated than a Free
Action, and requires a bit more concentration to attempt. Only a
few require a Success Test to accomplish, however.

A Free Action may be taken in place of a Simple Action.

During any Combat Phase, the character may take up to two
Simple Actions or one Complex Action.

The following are typical Simple Actions occurring in combat
in the Shadowrun game.

Change Gun Mode

A character holding a ready firearm can change its fire mode
via a Simple Action. If the weapon is a properly linked smartgun, it
takes only a Free Action to change the mode. See Fire Mode, p. 92,
and Smartlink, p. 90.

Change Position

Using a Simple Action, a character may either stand up or lie
down (becoming prone). If the character is wounded and attempt-
ing to stand up, he needs a Willpower (2) Test to stand up.
Remember to include any injury modifiers to the target number.
Characters can always fall down without making a test (or by using
the Free Action of Drop Prone).

Command a Spirit

Using a Simple Action, a magician character may issue a
command to a nature or elemental spirit under his control. See also
Elemental Services and Nature Spirit Services, p. 140.

 

SHADOWRUN 81
COMBA

Fire Weapon

A character may fire a ready firearm in single-shot, semi-
automatic, or burst-fire mode via a Simple Action. See Firearms, p.
92, for more information. If a character has one weapon in each
hand, he may fire once with each weapon by expending one Simple
Action. See Using a Second Firearm, p. 90.

Single-shot weapons may be fired only once per Combat Phase.

Using Fire Weapon, a character may fire a bow-weapon
(regular bow or crossbow) that has been previously made ready
using the Simple Action of Ready Weapon. See Projectile Weap-
ons, p. 96.

Insert Clip

A character may insert a fresh clip into a ready firearm by taking
a Simple Action, but only if he has first removed the previous clip.
See the Simple Action of Remove Clip, below, and also Reloading
Firearms, p. 95.

Observe in Detail
A character may make a detailed observation by taking a
Simple Action. See Perception, p. 185.

Pick Up/Put Down Object
A character may pick up an object within reach or put down
one that he was holding by expending a Simple Action.

Quick Draw

A character may attempt to quick-draw a pistol or pistol-sized
weapon (Concealability 4 or greater, see p. 94) and immediately fire
it by expending a Quick Draw action. For the character to success-
fully draw the weapon, the player must make a Reaction (4) Test.
Only 1 success is necessary to clear the weapon. If the pistol is not
held in a proper holster, add a +2 target modifier. If the test is
successful, the character may draw the pistol and fire normally. If the
test fails, he cannot fire the gun this Combat Phase.

Only weapons that can be fired with a Simple Action can be
quick-drawn. Two weapons may be quick-drawn and fired, but this
adds an additional +2 target modifier to each Reaction Test. See
Using a Second Firearm, p. 90.

Ready Weapon

A character may ready a weapon by spending a Simple Action.
The weapon may be a firearm, melee weapon, throwing weapon,
ranged weapon, or mounted or vehicular weapon. Readying entails
drawing a firearm from a holster, drawing a throwing or melee
weapon from a sheath, picking up any kind of weapon, nocking an
arrow in a bow or crossbow, or generally preparing any kind of
weapon for use. A weapon must be ready before it can be used.

A character can ready a number of small throwing weapons,
such as throwing knives or shuriken, equal to one-half his Quickness
(round down) per Ready Weapon action.

Remove Clip

A character may remove a clip from a ready firearm by taking
a Simple Action. See Insert Clip, above, and also Reloading
Firearms, p. 95. It takes another Simple Action to grab a fresh clip
and slam it into the weapon.

The wielder of a smartgun with properly linked headware may
eject the gun’s clip by spending a Free Action to make a simple
cybernetic command. See Smartlink, p. 90.

Shift Perception

A Simple Action allows a magician to shift perception to or
from astral space. Actual astral projection requires a Complex
Action. See Astral Perception, p. 145.

Take Aim

A character may take aim with a ready ranged weapon
(firearm, bow, or throwing weapon) as a Simple Action. Take Aim
actions are cumulative, but the benefits are lost if the character takes
any other kind of action, including a Free Action. Take Aim actions
may be extended over multiple Combat Phases and Combat Turns.
The maximum number of sequential Take Aim actions a character
may take is equal to one-half the character's skill with that weapon,
rounded down.

Characters who are aiming over multiple Combat Phases may
not use Dice Pool dice for any reason without losing the benefits of
the Take Aim actions.

Each Take Aim action reduces the base target number by |. See
Resolving Ranged Combat, p. 87.

Throw Weapon
A character may throw a ready throwing weapon (see Ready
Weapon, above) by taking a Simple Action.

Use Simple Object

A character may use a simple object by taking a Simple Action.
In this case, simple is defined as being able to operate the device
ormechanism viaa simple activity such as pushing a button, turning
a knob (doors must be unlocked to be opened with a Simple
Action), pulling a lever, and so on. The gamemaster may have to
decide on a case by case basis if a device or mechanism is simple
or complex. A character can also use objects such as potions, pills,
skillsofts, or patches by taking a Simple Action.

COMPLEX ACTIONS

A Complex Action requires the most intense concentration of
all the possible action types. Only one Complex Action is possible
per Combat Phase. A character who wishes to take a Complex
Action may also take a Free Action that Combat Phase, but no
Simple Actions are possible.

Astral Projection
A magician may accomplish astral projection by taking a
Complex Action. See Astral Projection, p. 146.

Cast Spell
A magician may cast a spell by taking a Complex Action. See
Casting Spells, p. 129.

 

82 SHADOWRUN
 

 

Melee/Unarmed Attack

A character may attack with a melee weapon, or unarmed, by
taking a Complex Action. See Melee Combat, p. 100. A character
may attack multiple targets within melee range with a single
Complex Action. See Multiple Targets, p. 102.

Fire Automatic Weapon
A character may fire a ready firearm in full autofire mode by
taking a Complex Action. See Firearms, p. 92.

Fire Mounted or Vehicle Weapon
A character may fire a ready mounted or vehicle weapon by
taking a Complex Action. See Vehicle Combat, p. 105.

Reload Firearm

Weapons that do not use clips must be reloaded using a
Complex Action. See Reloading Firearms, p. 95.

Summon Nature Spirit
A shaman may summon a nature spirit by taking a Complex
Action. See Summoning Nature Spirits, p. 140.

Use Complex Object

A character may operate a complex object, such as a com-
puter, cyberdeck, vehicle, and so on, by taking a Complex Action.
“Use” entails activating a program, issuing detailed instructions,
conducting an internal operation (such as copying files), driving the
vehicle, and the like. This cannot be done while running.

Use Skill
A character may use an appropriate skill by taking a Complex
Action. See Skills, p. 66.

MOVEMENT

In addition to the choices of Free, Simple and Complex
Actions, characters may also choose to move during a Combat
Phase. Movement in no way changes the availability of Free,
Simple, or Complex Actions.

There are two types of movement: walking and running.
Characters may move at one of the two rates during a Combat
Phase. They may also choose to remain stationary if they wish.
Characters who have multiple Actions may run only in one of those
Combat Phases, but it does not matter which.

WALKING

When walking, characters may move at a pace equal to their
Quickness Rating in meters during that Combat Phase. If they are
combining the movement with an action that requires some form
of Success Test, the character takes a +1 target modifier. If the
movement is over rough terrain or through obstacles, the character
takes a +2 target modifier.

RUNNING

Characters who are running may move a number of meters
equal to their Quickness Rating multiplied by the appropriate
running modifier from the table below. The result is in meters per
Combat Phase.

Characters who are running take a +4 target modifier to any
tests attempted while running.

Characters with Running Skill may attempt to increase their
running distance by spending a Complex Action (Use Skill). Each
success against a Target Number 4 increases the character's effec-
tive Quickness by 1 point for that Combat Phase.

RUNNING TABLE
Race Running Modifier
Human x3

Dwarf x2
EIf x3
Ork x3
Troll x2

 

INTERCEPTION

If movement takes a character within one meter of an oppo
nent, and the character attempts to pass by without attacking the
opponent, that opponent can take a free melee attack. If the
opponent has a weapon ready, he uses his normal Armed Combat
Skill Rating; otherwise, he uses Unarmed Combat Skill. The attacker's
target number is 4. The only modifiers are those applied for reach,
movement, or the attacker's condition. The character can choose to
Subdue (p. 103) if he chooses. The defending character is assumed
to be in Full Defense (p. 103).

If the character attempting to pass takes damage (see Melee
Combat, p. 100), he is considered to be intercepted and he cannot
continue his movement.

The Combat Pool may be used to augment these rolls.

 

SHADOWRUN 83
COMBAT

DICE POOLS

Dice Pools initially become available for use at full value as the
first step of the first Combat Turn of any encounter. Characters can
then draw from them, as appropriate for the type of pool, during the
Combat Turn. Once dice are drawn from the pool, those dice are no
longer available for use until the pool refreshes at the beginning of
the character's next action. More than one die can be used to
augment a test, subject to the limitations of the Dice Pool.

When using dice from a Dice Pool to augment a test, the player
adds the Dice Pool dice directly to those normally used for the test.
That is, if a character would normally roll 4 dice for a test, but takes
3 more dice from the appropriate pool to augment the test, he now
rolls a total of 7 dice.

Some pools have limitations on how many dice can be added
to a single test. See the descriptions for the respective Dice Pools
for more information.

Dice from a Dice Pool should be a different color than the other
dice used in the test.

Ellen Whiteface, heavy pistol held out before her in a
combat grip, is fresh out of options: if she doesn't take
down the charging troll right fraggin’ now, she'll never
have to worry about options again. Her player can choose
to use none, some, orall of the dice in Whiteface’s Combat
Pool to augment her Firearms Test. Whatever dice she
uses to augment the test will be unavailable again until the
beginning of Whiteface’s NEXT action. In this case, White-
face has a Combat Pool of 6 dice. Her player, knowing that
the troll has to be stopped, decides to use all 6 dice. That
leaves no dice in the character's Combat Pool until her
next action. If the Whiteface player had decided to use,
say, only 4 dice, 2 dice would still have remained for use.
Whiteface’s player has decided to risk it all in taking down
the troll. If Whiteface does not stop the troll now, he could
well come after her again at a time when she has no
Combat Pool dice to use defensively.

At the start of each character's action, all his or her Dice Pools
refresh to their original, full value. Thus, if a character has a Magic
Pool with 8 dice, the pool always returns to 8 dice at the start of that
character’s action. Unused pool dice do not carry over from one
action to the next. Pool dice not used by the end of a Combat Turn
are available for use early in the next Combat Tum, but are lost on
the character’s first action of that Turn.

Whiteface geeks the troll, barely, but now has a trio
of ninja wannabees looking to slice and dice her. When
the Combat Turn ends, she still has 3 dice in her Combat
Pool. Rolling for Initiative, her player makes an Initiative
total of 18. Those remaining 3 dice can be used anytime,
subject to the rules of the Combat Pool, prior to her action
18. She'll need them: two of the ninja wannabees have
actions before her.

 

The dice pools of characters who delay actions refresh in the
Combat Phase during which they delayed. The pools do not,
however, refresh when the action actually comes up. The characters
must wait until their next eligible action after the triggered action.
If dice are drawn from any Pool, for any reason, at any time during
the delay period (before the triggering event occurs), the delay is
lost. See Delaying Actions, p. 80.

COMBAT POOL

The Combat Pool represents the attention the character is
giving to his or her offensive and defensive posture. Dice from the
Combat Pool may be allocated to any offensive or defensive
combat-related tests, such as Firearm, Projectile Weapon, Throwing
Weapon, Gunnery, Melee Combat, or similar offensive Combat Skill
Tests (see Success Tests, p. 66). It is also possible to use dice from
the Combat Pool to augment Damage Resistance Tests (see p. 102)
against normal attacks.

Jonah Hammer, a mercenary with far too much
attitude, has a Combat Pool of 7 dice. He has Firearms,
Projectile Weapons, Throwing Weapons, and Gunnery
Skills, and can use dice from the Combat Pool to augment
tests for those skills. Ifattacked, he can also use dice from
his Combat Pool for the Damage Resistance Test.

A character’s Combat Pool is equal to his Quickness, Intelli-
gence, and Willpower Ratings, divided by 2, rounding down. Note
that the personal combat sense spell (p. 153) does affect the
Combat Pool, as do other spells that affect Quickness, Intelligence,
or Willpower.

The Combat Pool refreshes according to the standard Dice Pool
rules.

The maximum number of Combat Pool dice that a character can
add to any offensive Success Test is equal to his rating in the skill for
which he is making the test. For example, a character with aCombat
Skill of 5 can add only 5 more dice from his Combat Pool when
making a Combat Success Test.

There is no limit on the number of dice that a character may
draw from the Combat Pool for a defensive Damage Resistance Test.

The only time the Combat Pool can be used to augment or
resist magic-related Success Tests is in the case of damaging
manipulation spells. A character can use dice from the Combat Pool
to augment the Damage Resistance Test against these spells. See
Manipulation Spells, p. 127.

An attack is considered to be a complete miss if the successes
earned purely from the Combat Pool dice exceed the successes
earned by the attacker. See Resolving Ranged Combat, p. 87, and
Resolving Melee Combat, p. 100.

Characters wearing partial or full heavy armor take reductions
to their Combat Pools. Those types of armor reduce the Combat
Pool by 1 die for every point of Ballistic Armor Rating the armor has
over the wearing character’s Quickness Rating. See Ammor, p. 242.

 

84 SHADOWRUN
SOT Aus

CONTROL POOL

The Control Pool is used by riggers to augment tests relating
to vehicle control, such as Driving or Piloting (p. 183) and Position
Tests (p. 105).

A rigger’s Control Pool is equal to the character's Reaction,
modified only by a vehicle control rig. Reaction bonuses from other
sources are of no help.

The Control Pool refreshes in accordance with the standard
Dice Pool rules. See Vehicle Combat, p. 105, for special rules
related to the Control Pool and Position Tests.

The maximum number of Control Pool dice that a character can
add to any control-related test is equal to the base number of dice
involved in the test. That is, the maximum number of Control Dice
that a character can add to acontrol-related test is equal to his rating
for the skill he is attempting to use.

Only characters with a Vehicle Control Rig (see p. 104) can use
a Control Pool.

HACKING POOL

Deckers use dice from the Hacking Pool to augment decking-
related tests such as Utility Tests (p. 174) and the MPCP Resistance
Test in Matrix combat (p. 179). Hacking Pool dice cannot be used
to augment defensive utility programs.

A character's Hacking Pool is equal to his or her Computer Skill
(or Software Concentration or Decking Specialization) plus the
character’s Reaction. The only bonuses that can help the Hacking
Pool are those received from cyberdeck response increase circuitry
(p. 173). Bonuses received from other sources do not help.

The Hacking Pool refreshes in accordance with the standard
Dice Pool rules.

The maximum number of Hacking Pool dice that can be added
to any test is equal to the base number of dice in use. That is, the
maximum number of Hacking Pool dice that can be added to a
program-related test is equal to the rating of the program. Similarly,
the maximum number of dice that can be added to the MPCP
Resistance Test is equal to the rating of the MPCP.

Only characters with a cyberdeck (see p. 172) can use a
Hacking Pool.

MAGIC POOL

A magician uses dice from the Magic Pool to augment certain
magic-related Tests. Dice from the Magic Pool can be used to
augment Spell Success Tests and Drain Resistance Tests in spellcasting
(p. 129), in a special manner for ritual sorcery (p. 133), and for
specific or area-effect Spell Defense (p. 132). Dice from the Magic
Pool cannot be used to augment Conjuring-related Tests.

A character’s Magic Pool is equal to his or her Sorcery Skill
Rating (or any Concentration or Specialization of that skill, per those
rules on p. 70), plus the rating of any applicable power foci the
character may have (see Foci, p. 137). Shamans also receive
conditional bonuses to their Magic Pool based on the totem they
follow. See Totem Modifiers, p. 119.

The Magic Pool refreshes in accordance with the standard Dice
Pool rules.

The maximum number of Magic Pool dice that a character can
add to a Magic Success Test is equal to his Magic Attribute. For
example, a character with a Magic Attribute of 6 could add a

maximum of 6 dice to a Success Test for a Force Rating 4 spell; that
is, he would make the test with a total of 10 dice.

There is no limit to the number of dice a character may draw
from the Magic Pool for the Drain Resistance Test. See the special
rules associated with Ritual Magic (p. 133) and Spell Defense (p.
132) for more on the Magic Pool in those situations. Magic Pool dice
cannot be used to augment Conjuring-related Tests.

Dice from the Magic Pool are allocated immediately following
the Declare Actions step of the Combat Turn.

 

CRITTER COMBAT

In Shadowrun, the term critter covers a wide variety of
creatures and beings. The group includes regular animals, paranormal
animals, spirits, and individuals who have been affected by magical
viruses, like vampires and ghouls.

INITIATIVE

Initiative for critters is determined in exactly the same way as
normal character Initiative. All animals have a base Reaction Rating
and a number of Initiative dice based on their reflexes (usually 1, 2,
and yes, even 3D6). See the Critter Statistics Table, p. 233, for
those statistics. The Initiative dice are rolled and added to the
animal's Reaction Rating to determine its Initiative total.

ACTIONS

Sentient creatures may perform the same actions as normal
characters, assuming they have the physical or paranormal means
to do so. This may require some judgment on the part of the
gamemaster, based on the information presented in the Critters
chapter, p. 214. The only Free Actions available to non-sentient
creatures are Cease Using Power (similar to Drop Sustained Spell),
Delay Action, Drop Prone, Drop Object (as appropriate), or Ob-
serve. They can use the Simple Actions of Change Position, Observe

 

SHADOWRUN 85
Oy Aus

In Detail, or Pick Up/Put Down Object (as appropriate), and Com-
plex Actions like Attack (like Melee/Unarmed Attack) or Use Power
(similar to Cast Spell)

DICE POOLS
Critters do not have Dice Pools. They do have Threat Ratings,
however. See below and also Behind the Scenes, p. 187.

CRITTER THREAT RATINGS

Critters, like non-player characters, have Threat Ratings to
reflect increased hazard or ability. The Threat Rating is a permanent
addition of dice to augment any applicable tests the critter makes,
whether offensive (especially attack-related) or defensive.

The Threat Rating is not added to Initiative dice for the purpose
of determining the creature's Initiative, however. Use the standard
formula of adding together the Reaction Rating and the Initiative dice.

Threat Rating dice should be treated as Combat Pool dice for
the purposes of determining a clean miss. See Combat Pool, p. 84.

It is ultimately the gamemaster’s option as to when to apply a
critter’s Threat Rating dice, based on that critter’s abilities and
general strengths.

COMBAT SKILLS

Sentient creatures may have skills, but if they do not, they
usually follow the same rules as non-sentient creatures. See the
Critters chapter, starting on p. 214, for more information. Non-
sentient creatures use their Reaction Rating as their base dice for
physical attacks. Creatures with paranormal abilities use either
Quickness, Intelligence, Willpower, or Reaction, as appropriate for
the ability or power.

Critters make Damage Resistance Tests normally, but add their
Threat Rating to the test dice.

SURPRISE

Characters sometimes appear where and when they are not
expected. This may be deliberate, as in the case of a planned
ambush. Or it may be accidental, as in the case of two unlucky
security guards who stumble over a group of shadowrunners
committing some nefarious deed. In these and other similar in-
stances a surprise situation can occur.

When surprised, a character can do little except watch events
unfold. Surprise, as a game concept, occurs individually on a
character by character basis. Thus, a player character walking into an
ambush set by two non-player characters may find himself sur-
prised by Ambusher A, but not by Ambusher B. In this case, the
player character can take actions against Ambusher B, but not
against Ambusher A, because it was Ambusher A that surprised
him.

To resolve surprise and ambush situations, all participants
must make Reaction Tests. Each character rolls his Reaction dice
against a Target Number 4. The ambusher-characters, if they have
delayed actions as they lie in wait for the arrival or appearance of
their targets, receive a —2 to their target numbers. Gamemasters
may also wish to apply additional target number modifiers for
terrain, proper (or improper) camouflage, and other extenuating
circumstances.

Each character's successes are then compared individually
against the successes generated by the opposing characters. One
of the following two results may occur against each of the opposing
characters:

‘If a character has not generated more successes than a
particular opposing character, he cannot take any actions that
directly affect, impede, or counteract that character.

“If the character has generated more successes than a particular
opponent, the first character can take actions against the second.

Tess, Virgil, and Winger are waiting in ambush for
three Mitsuhama security goons. The goons arrive, and
our heroes spring their ambush. Tess has a Reaction of 6,
Virgil an 8, and Winger a 9. The three goons all have
Reaction 4. All characters make Reaction Tests. Rolling
against Target Numbers of 2 (4, minus 2 for being
ambushers) Tess gets 3 successes, Virgil 4, and Winger 5.
Goon A gets a 4, Goon B gets 2, and Goon C gets none.
Comparing successes, we find that Tess (3 successes) can
act fully against Goon B (2 successes) and Goon C (0
successes), but can do nothing against Goon A (4 suc-
cesses). Virgil can take actions against Goons B and C, but
not A because Virgil and Goon A have the same number
of successes. With 5 successes, Winger can act against
everybody.

The goons are in deep trouble. Goon A can only take
actions against Tess (4 successes versus 3), and that’s it.
Neither Goon B nor Goon C can take actions against any
of the shadowrunners. Goon B simply did not generate
enough successes, and Goon C, with no successes, is
caught with his mouth hanging open or admiring a
particularly attractive crack in the sidewalk.

All losses of actions, or limitations on actions, pertain to the
character's current action (if he is acting) or the next action, if it is
not his or her action. Surprise should be resolved before any actions
in a Combat Phase.

Gamemasters will no doubt have to make numerous judgment
calls in combat situations. The main idea in a surprise situation is that
characters who do not generate more successes than a particular
opponent in the Reaction Test cannot act against or react directly to
that character. They are surprised by that character. The character
can carry out other actions of a more general nature that are not
directed at the opposing character, such as dropping prone or
readying a weapon (but not firing it).

Characters who are unable to generate more successes than
any members of the opposition suffer doubly. If anyone in the
opposition generated more successes than the first character, the
latter is considered to be completely surprised and is unable to take
any actions of any kind, including Free Actions. The character may
act again normally after ten Combat Phases.

Critters and animals all obey the same rules for surprise, as do
spirits. Magical spells, programs, and IC are never surprised. Sorry.

 

86 SHADOWRUN
A

RANGED COMBAT

There are two kinds of combat in Shadowrun: ranged combat
involving weapons, and melee, or hand-to-hand combat. All
ranged combat, whether it involves firearms, projectile weapons.
or thrown weapons, is resolved in the same manner. Ranged magic
combat is explained in the Magic section, starting on p. 116.

RESOLVING RANGED COMBAT

Use the procedure outlined below for resolving
ranged combat. Each step is explained further in the
following sections.

1. Determine Range

Count the number of meters to the target and com-
pare the weapon type against the appropriate range
column on the Weapon Range Table (p. 88) to find the
base target number.

2. Apply Situational Target Modifiers
Consult the Ranged Combat Modifiers Table (p. 89)
and apply the appropriate situation modifiers.

3. Attacker’s Success Test

Make the attacker’s Success Test using the appropri-
ate Combat Skill, modified by dice from the character's
Combat Pool. Count the successes. See p. 90, below.

I i ae sdereesheyaiarersatonr retin ee

Body dice and Combat Pool dice against a target number
re equal to the Power Rating of the weapon used, minus the
target’s Armor Rating. Count the successes.

m T i r Tm | nit on ener rms ie

Wt damage is reduced or increased (staged) appropriately. A
tie means the attacker does the weapon's base damage.
A clean miss occurs if the number of successes from the
target’s Combat Pool exceeds the attacker's successes.
See p. 91, below.

6. Apply Damage
The weapon's damage is staged accordingly and
applied against the target, if necessary. See p. 91, below.

Pa 3 all ] a
| i) UU ea BASE TARGET NUMBER
: To determine a weapon's base target number, check the
distance to the target in meters and then consult the Weapon Range

= Ht le I chin hep roa ge

5, long range against a 6, and extreme range against a 9.

 

 

SHADOWRUN 87
WEAPON RANGE TABLE

Target Number 4

Firearms

Hold-out Pistol

Light Pistol

Heavy Pistol

SMG

Taser

Shotgun

Sporting Rifle

Sniper Rifle

Assault Rifle

LMG

Heavy Weapons

Medium Machine Gun 0-40
Heavy Machine Gun 0-40
Assault Cannon 0-50
Grenade Launcher *5-50
Missile Launcher *20-70
Impact Projectiles

Bow O-Str
Light Crossbow O-Str x 2
Medium Crossbow O-Str x 3
Heavy Crossbow O-Strx 5
Thrown Knife O-Str
Shuriken O-Str

The base target number appears at the top of the appropriate
range column. All distances are in meters. Weapons marked with
asterisks at short range have minimum range requirements. For
impact projectiles, the notes “To Str x 10” and the like mean that the
bow’s Strength Minimum is used to determine the distance. That is,
a bow being wielded by a character with a Strength Rating 5 hasa
O- to 5-meter short range, 6- to 50-meter medium range, a 51- to
150-meter long range, and a 151- to 300-meter extreme range.
See Strength Minimum Rating, p. 96.

Minimum Ranges

Weapons marked with an asterisk cannot be fired at targets
closer than the minimum value given under Short Range. See
Grenade Launcher Minimum Range, p. 97, and Missile Launch-
ers, p. 99.

Image Modification Systems

These systems shorten a weapon's range category by a num-
ber of levels equal to the device's rating. A Rating 2 targeting scope
firing at long range would, for example, shift range two places to the
left on the Weapon Range Table. Long range would change to short

 

5 6 9
Range In Meters
Medium Long Extreme
6-15 16-30 31-50
6-15 16-30 31-50
6-20 21-40 41-60
11-40 41-80 81-150
6-10 11-12 13-15
11-20 21-50 51-100
31-60 61-150 151-300
41-80 81-200 201-400
16-40 41-100 101-250
21-40 41-80 81-150

301-500
401-800
451-1,300
151-300
451-1,500

41-150
41-150
51-150
51-100
71-150

151-300
151-400
151-450
101-150
151-450

To Str x 60
To Str x 40
To Str x 50
To Str x 60
To Strx 5
To Str x 7

To Str x 10
To Str x 8
To Str x 12
To Str x 15
To Str x 2
To Str x 2

To Str x 30
To Str x 20
To Str x 30
To Str x 40
To Str x 3
To Strx 5

 

range, and the base target number (normally 6 for an attack at long
range) would drop to Target Number 4 for short range. Short range
is the minimum, so the same device used for an attack at medium
range could not reduce the range category to less than the
minimum for short range.

SITUATIONAL TARGET MODIFIERS

Things are not always as easy as they seem. Weapon accesso-
ries, intervening terrain, atmospheric conditions, and the move-
ment of the attacker and the target can change the base target
number. As with tests for skills or attributes, the character's physical
condition also affects the target number.

Target numbers modified to less than 2 are assumed to be 2.
A target number can never be less than 2.

The various ranged combat modifiers are given on the follow-
ing table. Each condition is described individually following this
table.

To determine the final, adjusted target number, total all the
applicable modifiers and apply that number to the base target
number found earlier. The result is the adjusted target number. The
adjusted target number can never be less than 2.

 

88 SHADOWRUN
RANGED COMBAT MODIFIERS TABLE

Situation
Recoil, Semi-automatic

Recoil, Burst-fire
Recoil, Full-auto

Recoil, Heavy weapon
Blind Fire

Partial Cover

Visibility Impaired
Multiple Targets

Target Running
Target Stationary
Attacker In Melee Combat
Attacker Running
Attacker Running
(difficult ground)
Attacker Walking
Attacker Walking
(difficult ground)
Attacker Wounded
Smartlink (with smartgun)
Smart Goggles
(with smartgun)
Laser Sight
Using a Second Firearm
Aimed Shot
Image Magnification
Recoil Compensation
Gyro Stabilization

Modifier

+1 for second shot that
Combat Phase

+3 per burst that Combat
Phase

+1 per round fired that
Combat Phase

2 x uncompensated recoil

+8

+4

See Visibility Table

+2 per additional target
that Combat Phase

+2

-l

+2 per opponent

+4

+6
+1

+2
See Injury Modifier, p. 112
-2

-1

-1

+2

—1 per Simple Action

Special

Reduces recoil modifier

Reduces recoil or
movement modifier

 

Recoil

Weapons that fire more than one round in an action are subject
to an escalating recoil modifier as the rounds leave the weapon.
Semi-automatic weapons that fire a second shot receive a +1
modifier for the second shot only. Burst-fire receives a +3 recoil
modifier for each burst fired that Combat Phase. Thus, a character
who fires the maximum of two bursts in an action receives a +3
modifier for the first burst and an additional +3 modifier (total of +6)
for the second burst. Full-autofire weapons take a cumulative +1
modifier for each round fired that Combat Phase. That is, a character
choosing to fire a seven-round full-autofire burst receives a +7
modifier. If that same character chooses instead to fire two five-
round full-auto bursts, he would have a +5 modifier (four previous
rounds) for the first burst and a + 10 modifier (nine previous rounds)
for the second burst.

The only way to counter a recoil modifier is with recoil
compensation or gyro stabilization (p. 240).

 

Double the uncompensated recoil modifiers for heavy weapons
(specifically, medium and heavy machine guns and shotguns). If a
medium machine gun is firing 10 rounds, and has 6 points of recoil
compensation, its final recoil modifier would be +6 (9 — 6 = 3; 3
doubled is 6).

Blind Fire

Attacks against targets that cannot be seen take a +8 modifier.
This modifier normally applies only to attacks through opaque
barriers or for indirect fire by grenade or missile launchers against
targets that cannot be seen. Attacks against normally visible targets
that are now invisible also suffer this modifier.

Partial Cover

Attacks against targets obscured by intervening terrain such as
brush, foliage, obstacles (crates, windows, doorways, curtains, and
the like) receive a +4 modifier. Obscurity due to environmental
conditions like smoke or darkness uses modifiers given on the
Visibility Table, below.

Visibility Impaired

Environmental conditions such as darkness or smoke occa-
sionally affect combat conditions. How much depends on the type
of vision the attacker is using. Consult the Visibility Table for the
modifiers.

If the table listing is split by a slash, the first modifier is for
cybernetic or electronic vision and the second for natural, metahuman
vision. If no slash appears, the modifier applies equally to all vision
types.

Full Darkness usually occurs only indoors or underground,
and indicates a complete absence of light. Minimal Light indicates
the presence of a small amount of light (small flashlight, match,
leaking light, moonlight, and so on.) Partial Light is the most
common, being the lighting condition of city streets at night,
partially lit stairways and hallways, and so on. Glare occurs when
the attacker is looking directly into a bright light, be it the sun or an
artificial light source such as a search or spotlight. Mist is very light
rain or blowing snow. Light Smoke/Fog/Rain is the presence of thin
smoke (perhaps from a fire), a light inland fog, or light rain. Heavy
Smoke/Fog/Rain is the heavy version of the previous. Thermal
Smoke is special smoke designed to block thermographic vision.
Thermal smoke affects thermographic vision the way normal smoke
affects normal vision.

VISIBILITY TABLE
Type of Vision
Normal _ Low-Light Thermographic
Full Darkness +8 +8/+8 +4/+2
Minimal Light +6 +4/+2 +4/+2
Partial Light +2 +1/0 +2/+1

Condition

Glare +2 +4/+2 +4/+2
Mist +2 +2/0 Oo
Light Smoke/Fog/Rain +4 +4/+2 Oo
Heavy Smoke/Fog/Rain +6 +6/+4 +1/0
Thermal Smoke As smoke As smoke As normal

 

 

SHADOWRUN 89
COMBAT

Multiple Targets

Ifa character is attacking multiple targets within a single Combat
Phase, he takes a +2 modifier per additional target. That is, if a
character were firing on full-autofire and engaging three targets
(three-round, four-round, and three-round bursts), he would suffer a
+2 modifier for the second target and a +4 modifier for the third target.

Target Running
If the target is running at the time of the attack or during his
previous action, the attack suffers a +2 modifier.

Target Stationary
Attacks against an unmoving, stationary target reduce the
target number by 1.

Attacker in Melee Combat

If the attacker is attempting to conduct a ranged attack while
engaged in melee combat with an opponent, or if he is aware of
another character attempting to block the attempt within two
meters of him, the attack takes a +2 modifier per opponent present.

Attacker Running

If the attacker is running at the time of the attack, the attack
takes a +4 modifier. If the attacker is running over difficult, hazard-
ous, or broken ground, the modifier is +6. Movement modifiers can
be counteracted by gyro-stabilization systems, described below.
See also p. 83, Movement.

Attacker Walking
Modifiers are +1 for normal walking and +2 for walking over
difficult, hazardous, or broken ground. See also p. 83, Movement.

Attacker Wounded
The attacker has taken damage. See Injury Modifier, p. 112.

Smartlink
Characters with smartlink headware and a properly equipped
smartweapon (see p. 241) receive a —2 target modifier.

Smart Goggles
Characters wearing smart goggles and using a properly
equipped smartweapon (see p. 241) receive a —1 modifier.

Laser Sight

Attacks using weapons equipped with a laser sight receive a
~—1 modifier. Laser sights are only effective out to 50 meters and are
counteracted by the presence of mist, light or heavy smoke, fog, or
rain.

Using a Second Firearm

Characters can use two pistol or SMG class weapons, one in
each hand. Doing so, however, imposes a +2 target modifier to
each weapon, and negates any target number reductions due to
smartlinks, smart goggles, or laser sights. Additionally, any
uncompensated recoil modifiers received by one weapon also
apply to the other weapon.

Aimed Shot
Characters that aim receive a —1 modifier per Simple Action
spent aiming. See Take Alm, p. 82, for more information.

Image Magnification
This equipment reduces the range and associated base target
number. See Imaging Scopes, p. 240.

Recoil Compensation

Recoil compensation systems counteract the effects of recoil
on a weapon. The recoil modifier is reduced at a rate of —1 per point
of recoil compensation the system provides. See Firearm Accesso-
ries, p. 240, for the exact degrees of recoil compensation. Recoil
compensation is cumulative, and only counteracts recoil modifiers,
not non-recoil situational modifiers.

Gyro-Stablilization

Gyro-stabilization provides portable, stabilized firing platforms
that counter the effects of recoil and movement-based modifiers
(such as for running or walking). The total recoil and movement
modifiers are reduced by —1 for every point of gyro-stabilization the
system provides. See Firearm Accessories, p. 240, for the exact
degrees of gyro-stabilization available. Gyro-stabilization counteracts
only recoil and movement modifiers and does not counter any non-
recoil or movement situational modifiers. Gyro-stabilization is cumu-
lative with recoil compensation.

Attacker Success Test

To determine the outcome of the attack, the player makes a
Success Test using a number of dice equal to his character's appropri-
ate Ranged Combat Skill, plus additional dice from the character's
Combat Pool. Compare each individual die rolled against the modi-
fied target number using the Rule of One and the Rule of Six (p. 32.)
Each die that equals or exceeds the target number is counted as a
success. If there are no successes, the attack has missed.

Keep track of this number. Write it down.

Liam has Firearms Skill 6 and is using 4 dice from his
Combat Pool. His adjusted Target Number is 4. Rolling the
10dice (6 + 4), he gets 3, 4, 3, 2,5, 5, 1, 2,6,and 5. Looking *
at the dice individually, he has the one 4, the three 5s, and
the 6 equaling or exceeding the adjusted target number (4),
for a total of 5 successes. If the adjusted target number had
been 5, there would have been only 3 successes. Had the
target number been higher than 6, say an 8, then only the
6 could have been re-rolled to try for the 8, per the Rule of
Six. In that case, re-rolling only the 6, Liam would have
needed to roll a 2 or better to get I success.

Defender Resistance Test

At this point, the target gets to make a Resistance Test to lessen
the effects of the damage. To save his skin, the defender rolls a
number of dice equal to his adjusted Body Attribute (including any
dermal armor, p. 242), plus any dice still in his Combat Pool.

 

90 SHADOWRUN
 

 

The target number for this test is the Power Rating of the
attacking weapon, modified by any armor the character is wearing.
To determine that adjusted target number, simply subtract the
rating of the armor from the weapon’s power. Any result less than
2 is considered a 2. Roll the dice, using the Rule of One/Rule of Six.
It is recommended that dice from the Combat Pool be a different
color than the Body dice. Each die that equals or exceeds the target
number is counted as a success.

Keep track of the total number of successes, as well as how
many of the Combat Pool dice also succeed.

This test is also referred to as the Damage Resistance Test.

Liam's target, an unfortunate with the even less
fortunate name of Snot, has a Body of 5 and is wearing 5
points of ballistic armor. Liam is firing his trusty Ares
Predator heavy pistol, which has a Damage Code of 9M.

The target number for Snot’s Resistance Test is 4 (9 —
5). He is rolling 5 dice for his Body, plus any dice from his
Combat Pool. Alas, he has none remaining.

The dice are rolled, resulting in 2, 3, 4, 4, and 6. Three
of the dice score equal to or higher than 4, so Snot has
three successes.

Determine Outcome of Attack

Compare the successes generated by the attacker and the
target.

If the attacker's successes exceed the target’s, the attacker can
raise the base damage of the weapon upward. The base damage of
the weapon rises by one Damage Level for every two full successes
the attacker rolls over the target’s total.

All weapons are rated at one of the Damage Levels: (L)ight,
(M)oderate, (S)erious, and (D)eadly, in that order. Increasing a
weapon's Damage Level shifts it to the next higher Damage Level.
Decreasing a weapon's Damage Level shifts it to the next lowest
damage level. See also Damage Codes, p. 33.

ee) AV

 

 

Staging up | level per 2 successes ——>
(L)ight —— (M)oderate (S)erious (D)eadly
<—— Staging down | level per 2 successes

If the attacker's successes equal the target’s, the weapon does
its base Damage Level.

If the target’s successes exceed the attacker's, the target can
reduce the weapon's base damage downward. The base damage
of the weapon drops by one Damage Level for every two full
successes the target rolls over the attacker's total. If the damage
falls below Light, no damage occurs.

If the target’s Combat Pool dice alone are enough to exceed
the attacker’s successes, the attack is a complete miss.

Comparing Liam's and Snot's successes, we find that
Liam (the attacker, with 5) has generated 2 more suc-
cesses than Snot (the defender, with 3). Liam therefore
gets to stage the weapon's damage upward. He has 2 net
successes (2 more than Snot), which is enough to inciease
the Damage Level from “M” to “S.” Poor Snot takes a
Serious wound.

IfSnot had, by some chance, rolled 2 more successes
than Liam, he would have been able to stage the weapon
down one Damage Level, from “M” to “L,” and only taken
a Light wound. He would have needed 4 more successes
than Liam in order to take no damage (2 successes to
reach Light, and then two more to eliminate it com-
pletely).

If both had scored the same number of successes,
Snot would have taken a Moderate wound, the base
damage of the weapon (9M).

If Liam had scored two more successes than he did,
he would have been able to stage the Damage Level up
2 levels, “M” to “S,” and then “S” to “D,” giving his
opponent a Deadly wound and blowing the...well, you
get the idea.

Apply Damage
Record the damage on the target’s Condition Monitor, accord-
ing to the rules on p. 111.

Stopping and Knockdown

A character struck by a ranged weapon may be knocked down
by the blow. When struck, the character must make a Body Test
against a target number equal to one-half the Power of the attack,
round down. If the character can overcome a Threshold Number
equal to one-half (rounding off) the amount of damage done (1 for
a Light Wound, 2 for Moderate, and 3 for Serious), there is no effect.

If the character is unable to generate any successes, he falls
down (prone).

If he generates successes, but does not overcome the Thresh-
old Number, the character remains standing but takes a step or two
(one meter) away from the direction of the attack.

This means, for example, that a character who has taken a
Moderate wound must generate more than 2 successes in his or her

 

SHADOWRUN 91
COMB

Body Test to remain standing. With | or 2 successes, the character
staggers or stumbles one meter away from the attack. If no
successes are generated, the character falls down.

Gel rounds have a base target number equal to their Power.
(See Ammunition Table, in the Gear section.)

Characters who take a Deadly wound are always knocked
down.

Called Shots

Characters may “call shots” in an attempt to increase the
damage their weapon will do. By calling a shot, the character is
aiming at a vulnerable portion of a target, such as the head of a
person, the tires or windows of a vehicle, and so on. It is up to the
gamemaster to determine if such a vulnerable spot is accessible.

When a shot is called, a few things can occur, at the player's
choice and with the gamemaster's agreement.

‘The Damage Code is increased by one level (L becomes M, M
becomes S, and so on, up to a maximum of D). The character also
suffers a +4 target modifier for the shot.

-A specific sub-target of something vehicle-sized or larger can
be hit, such as the windows or tires on a vehicle. Normal damage
rules apply, but are used against the specific part of the vehicle. For
the windows or tires, the Barrier Ratings would be used. The
character receives the +4 modifier for this shot as well.

Only weapons that fire in single-shot, semi-automatic, and
burst-fire modes are eligible for called shots.

A character can aim (see Simple Actions, p. 82) and then call
a shot at the time of the attack. Calling the shot is a Free Action.

FIREARMS

Most ranged combat involves the use of firearms. The four
types of firearms are those that fire in single-shot mode (SS), semi-
automatic mode (SA), burst-fire (BF), and full-auto mode (FA).
Some firearms are capable of firing in more than one mode.

FIRE MODE TABLE
Firearm Type Fire Mode
Hold-out Pistol Single-shot or semi-auto
Light Pistol Semi-auto only
Taser Single-shot or semi-auto
Heavy Pistols Single-shot or semi-auto
Submachine Gun Semi-auto, burst-fire, and/or
full auto
Semi-auto or burst-fire
Semi-auto, burst-fire, and/or
full auto
Semi-auto only
Semi-auto only

Shotguns
Assault Rifle

Sporting Rifle
Sniper Rifle
LMG Burst-fire and/or full auto

MMG and HMG
Assault Cannon

Full-auto only
Single-shot only

 

SINGLE-SHOT MODE

Weapons that fire in single-shot mode can usually fire only in
that mode. Firing a single-shot mode firearm requires only a Simple
Action, but that weapon cannot be fired again that Combat Phase.

Semi-Automatic Mode

Firearms that are capable of firing in semi-automatic mode can
fire up to twice in one Combat Phase. Each shot requires a Simple
Action. The first shot is unmodified, but the weapon has a +1 recoil
modifier if a second shot is taken in that Combat Phase. This modifier
can be, and usually is, neutralized by recoil compensation.

Each shot requires a separate Success Test. Each shot also
requires a separate allocation of Combat Pool dice, if used.

Multiple Targets
If the attacker engages multiple targets in semi-automatic
mode, the second target is at a +2 modifier.

BURST-FIRE MODE

In burst-fire mode, firearms spit out three bullets in rapid
succession every time the trigger is pulled. Firing a weapon in burst
mode is a Simple Action, which means that up to two bursts may
be fired per Combat Phase.

Firing a weapon in burst-mode imposes a +3 recoil modifier per
burst fired. This modifier can be neutralized with recoil compensation.

Make an individual Success Test for each separate burst,
modified by dice from the Combat Pool, if desired. Each burst
requires a separate allocation of Combat Pool dice. For the purposes
of resolving burst damage, the weapon is considered to have a
Power Level 3 points greater than listed, and its Damage Level goes
up to the next level. Thus, a 5M weapon firing in burst-mode would
have a Power Rating of 8 and a Damage Level of S.

Short Bursts
If, because of insufficient ammunition in the clip, the burst ends
up being a round short, the Power Rating increases by +2, but the
Damage Level does not increase. A +2 recoil modifier also applies.
If a burst consists of only one round, again due to insufficient
ammunition, resolve it just as for a single-shot attack.

Multiple Targets
When engaging multiple targets in burst-mode, fire directed
against a second target receives a +2 target modifier.

FULL-AUTO MODE

Weapons capable of firing in full-auto mode throw bullets for
as long as the attacker depresses the trigger. This effect is affection-
ately referred to as the “lead hose.” Firing a weapon in full-auto
mode is a Complex Action.

The attacker declares how many rounds are fired from the
weapon at a specific target. This group of rounds is considered a
“full-auto burst” and is resolved in a manner similar to burst-fire.
Each round fired imposes a +1 recoil modifier for the entire group.
This modifier can be reduced by recoil compensation. One test,
modified by dice from the Combat Pool, is made to resolve each
attack, each full-auto burst. The Power Rating of the weapon
increases by | point for every round in that full-auto burst. The

 

92 SHADOWRUN
COMBAT

Damage Level of the weapon also increases by one level for every
three full rounds in the full-auto burst, raising an M Damage Level
to S, and then to D, if enough rounds are fired. A Damage Level of
D is the maximum obtainable.

A minimum of three rounds must be fired with each burst. If the
belt or clip runs short, see Short Bursts, above.

This is most certainly Wedge's day. Six punks from
the Halloweener gang decided to harass some innocent
pedestrians whom Wedge decided (seconds ago) that he
likes. Sure, he yelled a warning to the gangers, but is it his
fault that his City Speak is so bad it sounded like some-
thing about dead mothers and fish?

The Halloweeners rush Wedge with a collection of
knives and clubs. Wedge pulls his Ingram Valiant LMG
from the back of his pick-up truck and holds down the
trigger in full autofire.

Though nuts, he's not completely insane. He limits
his targets to the first three gangers, hitting each one with
a full-auto burst, consisting of three rounds, three rounds,
and four rounds, respectively.

The Valiant has a Damage Code of 7S, and this
particular weapon is equipped with a Rating 3 gas vent
system on the barrel and a shock pad on the stock, fora total
of 4 points of recoil modification. The punks are all within 20
meters, making Wedge's base Target Number a 4. The
punks are walking, so there's no movement modifier. There
are, in fact, no situation modifiers at all, except for the laser
sight on the LMG (did we mention that?). That means
Wedge has a base Target Number of 3 (4 - 1).

The first punk gets a three-round burst, which in-
creases the Damage Code of the weapon to 10D. The
three-round burst qualifies for 3 points of recoil, which the
weapon compensates for. Punk 1: Damage Code 10D,
Target Number 3.

Punk 2 gets a three-round burst too, with a healthy
Damage Code of 10D. Now, however, six rounds have
been fired from the weapon, so the recoil modifier is 6. The
weapon compensates for 3, leaving 3. This is the second
target this Combat Phase, which adds another +2 modi-
fier. Punk 2: Damage Code 10D, Target Number 8.

Punk 3 gets the four-round burst (lucky her) that has
a Damage Code of 1 1D. The recoil modification is now +7
(10 — 3). Being the third target also means a +4 modifier
added to the attack because of multiple targets. Punk 3:
Damage Code 16D, Target Number 14.

Make a separate Success Test for each burst, with a
separate allocation of Combat Pool dice, which Wedge
has a lot of and which he uses primarily for the last two
bursts because of their higher target numbers.

Multiple Targets

When engaging multiple targets in full-auto mode, the at-
tacker must “walk” the fire from one target to the next. What this
means is that one round is “wasted” for every meter of distance

between the two targets. Smartguns never waste rounds.
The attacker also receives a blanket +2 target modifier for each
new target engaged during that Combat Phase.

STRAY SHOTS (OPTIONAL)

Full autofire walked from one target to the next may result in
stray shots striking an unintentional target. If a potential target is
within the line of fire of a stray shot, roll 2 dice against a 4 if the
potential target is within short range, 5 for medium range, 6 for
long, and 9 for extreme. If 1 or more successes are rolled, resolve
the hit normally, but give the attacker 1D6 more successes.

If more than one potential target lies within the line of fire,
determine randomly the order in which they are checked.

Remember, each meter between targets produces one stray
round, and smartguns never produce stray rounds.

AMMUNITION

Most weapons are capable of firing an assortment of ammuni-
tion types. The three most common are flechette, explosive, and
gel (or stun) rounds.

Flechette Rounds

Instead of firing a single, solid slug, flechette rounds fire a large
number of small, sharp metal fragments designed to rip and tear
into a target. They are very effective against minimally or unarmored
targets, but almost useless against those with any kind of armor
protection.

Against unarmored targets, flechette rounds increase their
damage by one level. That is, a heavy pistol (9M) firing a flechette
round would have a Damage Code of 9S against unarmored targets.

Against armored targets, flechette rounds fare poorly. For the
target's Armor Rating, use either double its Impact Armor Rating or
its normal Ballistic Rating, whichever is higher. Double the Barrier
Rating of any barriers fired at and/or through (see Barriers, p. 98).
Also double the value of any vehicle armor (p. 104).

The only effect of dermal armor, other than adding its rating to
the character's Body Attribute, is that it negates the Damage Level-
increase effects of flechette ammunition.

Explosive Rounds

Explosive rounds are solid slugs designed to fragment and
explode on impact. Increase the Power Rating of any attack with
explosive rounds by 1.

Attempts to fire through a barrier use twice the normal Barrier
Rating of the material, but the barrier itself takes damage as if it had
one-half its normal Barrier Rating. See Barriers for more informa-
tion.

On the downside, explosive rounds will misfire whenever all
of the Attack Test dice come up as ones, regardless of whether or
not the test would otherwise have succeeded or failed. When this
occurs, the character firing the weapon is immediately subjected to
one “attack,” with a Damage Code equal to that of the normal round
the weapon fires. Do not apply the explosive round adjustments.
The character may make a Damage Resistance Test against the
“attack,” but may not apply any dice from his Combat Pool. Roll 1D6
to determine the number of successes in the “attack.” The attack in
progress misses.

 

SHADOWRUN 93
OTANI

WEAPON RATINGS TABLE
Type Concealability Ammo Mode Damage _ Weight

PISTOLS

Streetline Special HO
Walther Palm Pistol HO
Beretta Model 101T LP
Colt America L36 LP
Fichetti Security 500 LP
Fichetti Security 500a LP
Ares Predator HP
Ares Viper Slivergun HP
Browning Max-Power HP
Remington Roomsweeper HP
Ruger Super Warhawk HP
SPECIAL WEAPONS

Narcoject Pistol LP 5 (c) SA

Narcoject Rifle SH 10 (c) SA

Defiance Super Shock LP 4 (m) SA

SUBMACHINE GUNS

AK-97 SMG/Carbine 30(c) SA/BF/FA

Heckler & Koch HK227 28 (c) SA/BF/FA

HK227 S Variant 28 (c) SA/BF

Uzi Ill 24 (c) BF 600¥

RIFLES

Remington 750 5 (m) SA ; 600¥

Remington 950 5 (m) SA ; 1,300¥
Ranger Arms SM-3 6 (m) SA : 4,000¥
Enfield AS-7 10 (c) SA/BF 1,000¥
Defiance T-250 5 (m) SA 1,400¥
AK-97 38(c) SA/BF/FA : 700¥

AK-98 38 (c)  SA/BF/FA ; 2,500¥
FN HAR 35 (c) SA/BF/FA : 1,200¥
LIGHT MACHINE GUNS

Ingram Valiant Belt 50(c) BF/FA 1,500¥
HEAVY WEAPONS

Generic MMG AO (c) FA 2,500¥
Generic HMG 40 (c) FA 4,000¥
Assault Cannon 20 (c) SS 6,500¥

6 (c) SS 4L 5
2 (b) SS 4L 25
12 (c) SA 6L 1.0
11 (c) SA 6L 1.0
12 (c) SA 6L 1.0
25 (c) SA 6L

15 (c) SA 9M

30 (c)

10 (c) SA 9M

8 (m) SA

6(cy) SS)

PWODAUANAUWM YO OW

TABLE KEY

Type describes whether the weapon is hold-out (HO), light pistol (LP), heavy pistol (HP), submachine gun (SMG), sporting rifle (SR),
sniper rifle (SN), shotgun (SH), assault rifle (AR), grenade launcher (GR), light machine gun (LMG), medium machine gun (MMG), heavy
machine gun (HMO), or assault cannon (cannon). These designations correspond to the entries on the Weapon Range Table, p. 88,
used for determining the range to the target and the base target number.

Concealability measures how concealable the weapon is. It is used as the target number for Perception Tests directed at noticing the
weapon. See Perception, p. 185.

Ammo refers to the amount of ammunition the weapon carries, and the type of reload system used. See Reloading Firearms, p. 95.
Mode refers to the different fire modes the weapon can produce. SS is single-shot, SA is semi-automatic, BF is burst-fire, and FA is
full autofire. See Fire Modes, p. 92.

Damage indicates the overall Damage Code of the weapon. The higher the weapon's Power Rating, the harder it is for the target to
resist the damage of the attack. The second part of the Damage Code is a letter—either L (Light), M (Moderate), S (Serious), or D
(Deadly)—indicating the level of damage done. See Damage Codes, p. 1 10. The presence of an (f) notation indicates that the flechette
ammunition rules (p. 93) should be used.

Weight indicates the weight of the weapon in kilograms.

Cost is the base cost of the weapon in nuyen.

 

94 SHADOWRUN
COMBAT

Gel (Stun) Rounds

Gel rounds are special rounds designed to take down a target
without seriously damaging it. They are usually semi-rigid slugs
that flatten on impact, disbursing their kinetic energy over a larger-
than-normal area. Gel rounds have a Power Rating 2 points less than
listed for the weapon's normal round and the same Damage Level,
but all damage is Stun, not Physical. Impact, not Ballistic Armor,
applies.

Gel rounds also have an increased chance of knocking the
character down. See Knockdown in a later section.

RELOADING FIREARMS

Most firearms in Shadowrun hold ammunition in removable
clips that can contain many bullets. Other guns offer a variety of
reload methods, including break action, internal magazines, or
cylinders (on revolvers). Heavy weapons use clips, or a multi-round
belt feed. Grenade launchers, discussed shortly, use the internal
magazine system. Missile and rocket launchers, also discussed
shortly, use a break action. The type of system used determines how
long it takes to reload the weapon.

Firearms, once reloaded, are considered ready. (See Actions,
p. 82.)

Removable Clips

Identified by a notation of (c) on the Firearms Table, removable
clips take one Simple Action to remove or insert. Using a Complex
Action, a character can reload a number of rounds into a clip equal
to his Quickness Rating.

Break Action

Identified by a (b) notation on the Firearms Table, a break action
weapon requires one Complex Action for the insertion of two
rounds. A break-action weapon usually hinges open near the firing
mechanism (or the equivalent) to allow insertion of the rounds.

Internal Magazines

Identified by an (m) notation on the Firearms Table, an internal
magazine weapon takes one Complex Action for the insertion of a
number of rounds equal to the firing character's Quickness Rating.
Weapons with internal magazines usually have small ports on the
side or top into which the rounds are inserted for storage and firing.

Cylinders

Identified by a (cy) notation on the Firearms Table, these
systems can be reloaded at a rate of anumber of rounds equal to the
character’s Quickness, per Complex Action. The presence of a
speed loader (see Firearm Accessories, p. 240) allows the con-
tents of the loader (the maximum ammunition capacity of the
weapon) to be loaded with a single Complex Action. Speed loaders
themselves may be reloaded at the same rate as the weapon.

Belt Feed

Identified by a (belt) notation, a belt feed is a long belt of linked
ammunition fed continuously through a weapon until the belt runs
out. It takes one Complex Action to insert the belt into the weapon.
Belts themselves may be reloaded at a rate equal to one-half the
character's Quickness Rating, per Complex Action.

SHOTGUNS

The shotguns described in the Gear chapter of this book (p. 236)
fire slug rounds. It is possible to load them with shot rounds, but shot
rounds have little effect in this era of body-armor technology.

Apply the flechette ammunition rules to the Damage Code
indicated for the weapon. That sets the damage for a hit from a shot
round from that weapon.

Shot rounds spread when fired, creating a cone of shot
extending outward from the muzzle of the shotgun. This allows the
shot to hit multiple targets, but with reduced effectiveness (the
same number of shot pellets are spread out over a larger area.) The
mechanism that controls this spread is called the choke.

The user of the shotgun can set the choke of the weapon at
anywhere from 2 to 10. What this number determines is how
quickly the shot spreads. For every number of meters equal to the
choke setting that the shot travels, it will spread one meter to either
side of the center line of fire. That means a shotgun firing with a
choke of 2 would catch targets along a one-meter-wide path for two
meters, then a two-meter-wide path for another two meters, then
a four-meter-wide path for another two meters, and so on. If the
choke were 5, it would catch targets along a one-meter path for five
meters, then a two-meter path until the ten-meter point, then a
four-meter path until the fifteen-meter point, and then along a six-
meter path until the twenty-meter point, and so on.

Every time a shot round increases its spread, it loses 1 point of
Power. Every time the shot spreads, subtract —1 from the attacker's
target number. That means the first shot in the example above
would be —2 Power/—2 target number at the six-meter point, while
the second shot would be —2/—2 at fifteen meters, and then —3/-3
at twenty meters. When the Power reaches 0, the shot is considered
ineffective and no further effects are determined.

ee

|— 3 Meters —}-— 6 Meters —}-— 9 Meters —J 1} 3] Met

SHOTGUN SPREAD EXAMPLE

Everything within the area of spread is considered a valid
target, organic or inorganic, friend or foe. To resolve the actual
attack, the attacker makes his Success Test, and then each of the
targets makes his Resistance Test individually, comparing the
results against the attacker’s successes from the single roll. See
Resolving Ranged Combat, p. 87. There is an additional modifier
for every other target within the spread in front of the target making
the Resistance Test. If, for example, a character were standing back
a bit and there were three other targets ahead of him within the
spread (between the first character and the gun), that first character
gets 3 extra dice for his Resistance Test.

For an extra +10 percent cost, the choke on a smart shotgun
can be rigged for cybernetic adjustment. Shotguns firing shot
rounds receive only a —1 from smartlinks, and no modifiers from
smart goggles or laser sights.

 

SHADOWRUN 95
PROJECTILE WEAPONS TABLE
Type Concealability Strength Damage Code Weight Cost
Minimum
BOWS
Standard Bow 1+
Arrows NA

(Str Min + 2)M 100¥ x Str Min

As bow ‘ 10¥

CROSSBOWS

Light

Medium

Heavy

THROWING WEAPONS
Non-Aerodynamic
Throwing Knife
Aerodynamic

Shuriken

PROJECTILE WEAPONS

Bows (regular and crossbows) and throwing weapons use the
same ranged combat procedure as firearms (see p. 87). There are,
however, some special rules that apply to these types of weapons.

Strength Minimum Rating

Bows and crossbows have Strength Minimum Ratings that
indicate the minimum Strength a character must have to use that
weapon. When attacking with a bow, characters below the Strength
Minimum suffer an additional +1 target modifier per point below
that number because of the difficulty they have in pulling the bow
and nocking an arrow. The weapon's Strength Minimum is used to
determine the weapon's range and damage.

If a character does not have the Strength Minimum for using a
particular crossbow, he must spend one additional Ready Weapon
action reloading the crossbow for each point of Strength he is below
the minimum. A crossbow’s Strength Minimum Rating is used to
determine its range.

Throwing Weapons
Throwing weapons have no Strength Minimum Rating; they use
the thrower's Strength Attribute to determine range and damage.

Projectile Weapon Types

Above is a list of some projectile weapons available in the
Shadowrun universe. The listing is not intended to be exhaustive,
but representative.

 

6L 300¥
6M 500¥
8S 750¥

Note that bows are purchased with a specified Strength
Minimum.

GRENADES

Grenades are inaccurate and unreliable in their effect, but can
be extremely effective when used properly. A character can deliver
grenades to a target by throwing them or firing them from a
grenade launcher. In either case, the number-one priority of the
attacker is to land the grenade as near the target as possible.
Grenades, because of their shape and method of delivery, will
scatter, bouncing and skittering across the ground. The better the
throw or launch, the less the scatter.

Resolving a grenade attack is a two-step process. The first step
determines where the grenade ended up when it exploded. Then,
the effect of the grenade’s explosion, or blast, must be resolved.

Hitting the Target

To determine the grenade’s final location, first choose the
intended target. Make a Success Test of the attacker’s appropriate
Combat Skill against a base target number from the Grenade Range
Table. Combat Pool dice can be applied.

Determine the range to the target in meters and cross-
reference it with the type of grenade used. The number at the top
of the corresponding range column is the base target number. That
target number is modified by the same situation modifiers as for
Ranged Combat (see p. 88). Roll the skill dice against the target
number, and note the number of successes generated.

GRENADE RANGE TABLE
Target Number
4 5 8 9
Type Short Medium Long Extreme Scatter
O-Str x 3 To Strx 5 To Str x 10 To Str x 20 1D6 meters
O-Str x 3 To Strx 5 To Str x 20 To Str x 30 2D6 meters
51-100 101-150 151-300 3D6 meters

Standard

Aerodynamic

Grenade Launcher *5-50
*See Grenade Launcher Minimum Range, p. 97.

 

Cnn ee eS SN A A

96 SHADOWRUN
Determine Scatter

Next, the gamemaster must determine the grenade’s base
scatter. Because all grenades scatter to some degree, the number
of successes generated in the Scatter Test are used to reduce the
distance.

The gamemaster determines the direction of the scatter by
rolling 1D6 and consulting the Scatter Diagram below.

The large arrow indicates the direction of the throw, so a result
of 1 means the grenade continued on past the target, while a result
of 4 means the grenade has bounced back in the direction of the
attacker. (Uh-oh!)

G 2

Direction
of
5 3 Throw

4
SCATTER DIAGRAM

Having determined the direction of the scatter, the gamemaster
next calculates the base distance of the scatter. The far right column
of the Grenade Range Table indicates the number of dice rolled to
find the scatter distance.

After that roll is made, the attacker reduces the scatter distance
by two meters per success for standard grenades, and four meters
per success for aerodynamic grenades and grenade launchers. If the
scatter distance is reduced to zero or less, the grenade has
detonated at the target. If the scatter distance is not reduced to
zero, the grenade detonates at the remaining distance in the
direction indicated.

Grenade Launcher Minimum Range

The short range for grenade launchers is given as five to fifty
meters. This is because the minigrenades fired from standard grenade
launchers do not actually arm until they have traveled about five
meters. They do not detonate if they hit anything before traveling that
distance. This is a safety feature in case of accidental misfire.

Disarming this safety feature requires only a simple adjustment
to the weapon, outside of the Combat Turn, but the character who
wishes this adjustment should probably re-read the scatter rules.

Blast Effects

The next step is to determine the effects of the grenade’s
explosion. Grenades are area-effect weapons, meaning that their
blast will affect an area and any targets, be they friend or enemy,
within that area. The target’s distance from the final location of the
grenade, the blast point, is critical. The farther away the target, the
less damage it takes, because a grenade’s blast effect is reduced by
distance.

Different grenade types lose blast-effect at different rates.
Consult the Grenade Damage Table below to find the grenade’s
Damage Code as well as its blast reduction rate.

 

 

GRENADE DAMAGE TABLE
Type Damage Code _— Power Level Reduction
—1 per meter
—1 per half meter
—1 per meter

Offensive 10S
Defensive 10S
Concussion 12M (Stun)

 

As with other weapons, the first part of a grenade’s Damage
Code is its Power Level. It is the Power that determines how likely
the grenade’s blast is to affect the target. It is also the Power that is
reduced with range. Thus, a target standing three meters away from
an offensive grenade blast would be subject to a base 7S damage,
while a target standing six meters away would be subject to a base
AS damage. If this were a defensive grenade instead, the first
character would be subject to only a base 4S damage, while the
second character would be out of the grenade’s blast effect entirely.

To resolve the effects of the grenade blast, roll the target's
Body dice against a target number equal to the adjusted Power of
the grenade’s blast at that range, minus the Impact Armor Rating
of the target. Combat Pool dice may be used to augment this test.
Compare the defender’s successes against those from the attacker’s
Success Test. If the attacker generates more successes, the Damage
Level of the blast increases one level for every two successes over
the target’s success total. If the defender generates more successes,
the Damage Level of the blast is reduced one level for every two
successes over the attacker's success total.

Blast against Barriers

When a grenade’s blast hits a barrier such as a wall, door, or
other similar structure, compare the remaining Power of the blast
(reduced by range) against twice the Barrier Rating of the object, per
the Barrier Rating Table, p. 98.

To find the blast’s effect on the barrier, consult the Barrier Effect
Table, p. 98, below.

If the barrier falls, the blast continues on, but the Power Level
is reduced by the original Barrier Rating. If the barrier does not fall,
the blast may be channeled, as described under Blast In A Con-
fined Space, below.

Demolitions

Ifa character uses Demolitions Skill to place explosive charges,
treat the barrier as though it had a normal Barrier Rating. Also make
a Demolitions Test against a Target Number 2. Successes from this
test add to the effective Power of the explosives.

Blast in A Confined Space

Sometimes, grenades detonate in a confined space, such asa
hallway or room. When this occurs, the gamemaster must first
determine whether any barriers (walls primarily) stood firm against
the explosion. Consult the Blast against Barriers rules above. If the
walls or doors hold, blast channeling occurs. If they do not hold,
determine blast effects normally.

If the walls hold, the shock wave reflects off the wall, continu-
ing back in the direction it came. If this rebounding shock wave
maintains enough Power to reach a character, that character is
subject to the appropriate blast. If this is the second time the

 

SHADOWRUN 97
COMBAT

character has been struck by the shock wave (once as it headed out
and then again as it rebounded back), the Power of the blast is equal
to the combined Power of the two waves. If, for example, the wave
had a Power of 6 when first passing the character, and then a 2 after
rebounding and hitting the character again, the effective Power of
the attack would be 6 + 2, for an 8. Yes, this does mean that in a
really small, really well-built room a detonating grenade could
rebound repeatedly off each of the four walls, raising the effective
Power of the blast to a value far higher than the original Power of the
grenade. This is known as the chunky salsa effect.

Consult the diagrams below for some examples of confined
blast grenade effects.

Blast Point Blast Point
~ (offensive, 10s) r (offensive, 10s)


an 3 Meters +. Meters 4 fF 2 Meters +—. Meters —H

TOTAL BLAST
7+ 1=8s

 

TOTAL BLAST
10+ 6+ 4=20s

GRENADE BLAST DIAGRAM

BARRIERS

Sometimes, a character will wish to attack through a barrier,
either to get at a target on the other side or to create a hole through
which he can move. The procedure for each is similar, but not the
same.

BARRIER RATING TABLE
Material Rating
Standard Glass
Cheap Material/Regular Tires
Average Material/Ballistic Glass

Heavy Material
Reinforced/Armored Glass
Structural Material

Heavy Structural Material
Armored/Reinforced Material
Hardened Material

 

Standard doors use the Barrier Rating of their construction
material. Security doors have twice the rating of the material. Glass
doors have the rating of the glass.

 

Firing Through

A character firing aranged weapon at a target on the other side
of a barrier is subject to the +8 Blind Fire Target Modifier because he
cannot see the intended target. If the intervening barrier is transpar-
ent, the modifier does not apply.

Either way, the character makes the standard Success Test,
except that the defender can subtract both his appropriate Armor
Rating and the adjusted Barrier Rating of the barrier from the Power
of the attack. Thus, a character wearing 3 points of armor and
standing on the far side of a Barrier 4 would subtract a total of 7 from
the Power of the attack.

If, however, the Barrier Rating exceeds the Power of the attack,
the attack cannot penetrate and is stopped cold. Note, however,
that this may still damage the barrier by reducing its rating.

Against blunt melee attacks such as fists, clubs, or other similar
weapons, a barrier maintains its normal rating.

Against edged melee attacks, such as those made by swords
and the like, the barrier has twice its normal rating.

Break Through

Characters will sometimes wish to break through a barrier,
most commonly doors, to get at or through to the other side. This
is resolved with a procedure similar to the one used in Blast against
Barriers, except that the barrier has twice its normal Barrier Rating
against firearm rounds and other ranged attacks. This is to account
for the fact that even though a bullet is powerful, it really does punch
only a tiny hole.

BARRIER EFFECT TABLE
Power of Attack Effect
Power less than 1/2
adjusted Barrier Rating

No effect, barrier holds,
minor cosmetic damage.

Power equal to or greater than
1/2 adjusted Barrier Rating,
up to the rating Barrier damaged; reduce

Barrier Rating by |.

Power greater than
adjusted Barrier Rating For every increnrent

equal to half the Barrier

Rating that the Power

exceeds that rating, a

one-half meter hole is

opened and the Barrier

Rating reduced by |.

Against melee attacks, a barrier has twice its normal Barrier
Rating. Against combat magic spells, barriers use twice their normal
rating. Against damaging manipulation spells, they use the normal
Barrier Rating.

A regular door will break open when its Barrier Rating is
reduced to one-half. A security door must be reduced to O before
it will break open.

Always use the base Power Rating of the round, unmodified for
burst or full auto fire, for comparison against the Barrier Rating.

 

98 SHADOWRUN
COMBAT

MISSILE LAUNCHERS

Occasionally, characters get their hands on military-grade
missile and rocket launchers. Both use the same kind of launcher
(called a missile launcher for convenience), but the two have
inherent differences.

Rockets

Rockets are rocket-shaped projectiles consisting of little more
than a light metal or plastic body with stabilizing fins, a propulsion
system (usually solid-chemical), and a warhead. They are considered
to be dumb weapons, as they go only where pointed and have no
intemal or extemal guidance capability.

Rockets come in three types: High-Explosive Rockets (HER),
Anti-Personnel Rockets (APR), and Anti-Vehicle Rockets (AVR).

High-Explosive Rockets (HER)

High-explosive rockets are designed to do heavy damage to
a large area. Their blast-pattern is similar to that of a grenade, but
covers a greater area. They are not particularly effective against
hardened targets such as vehicles or protected military structures.
HERs use the standard grenade rules for blast and its effects.

Anti-Personnel Rockets (APR)

Anti-personnel rockets are, as the name implies, used princi-
pally against people. On impact, the warhead discharges high-
speed metal or plastic-metal fragments designed to tear into
unprotected flesh. APRs are very effective against unprotected
individuals, but fairly ineffective against barriers, structures, and
vehicles. APRs use the rules under Flechette Rounds, p. 93.

Anti-Vehicle Rockets (AVR)

Anti-vehicle rockets contain a shape-charged warhead designed to
bum or blast its way through a vehicle or barrier. Though a blast is
associated with the impact, it is limited compared to something like
that of a HER. Against AVRs, the Barrier Rating of a barrier is halved
(round down), as is the Armor Rating for vehicles (round down).

Missiles

Missiles are basically rockets, with two differences; they carry
internal guidance and tracking systems, and are much more expen-
sive. Because of their sophisticated electronics, missiles are consid-
ered to be smart weapons. The onboard electronics assist the firer
in acquiring and hitting the target.

Like rockets, missiles come in three types: high-explosive
(HEM), anti-personnel (APM), and anti-vehicle (AVM). The war-
head types follow the same rules as their rocket counterparts.

ROCKET/MISSILE TABLE
Type Damage Power Level Scatter
Code Reduction
—1 per meter 2D6 meters
—1 per half-meter 2D6 meters
-8 per meter 2D6 meters

HER/HEM 16D
APR/APM 16D
AVR/AVM 16D

 

Resolving Rocket and Missile Fire

Rocket fire is resolved in exactly the same manner as for
grenade launchers. See Grenades, p. 96.

Missile fire, on the other hand, works a little differently.
Missiles have an Intelligence Rating that reflects the sophistication
of their internal electronics. The presence of these electronics does
three things. First, when using the missile’s sensing and targeting
circuits, the character rolls the Intelligence Rating of the missile as
extra dice in the Success Test (in addition to the character's Gunnery
Skill and any Combat Pool dice). Second, when a missile is fired
against a vehicle, the vehicle’s Signature Rating (see p. 104)
becomes the target number, regardless of range. There is an
additional +2 target modifier when the missile is fired in an urban
environment such as a major city, industrial park, or most non-
residential areas of a sprawl. Lastly, the scatter of a missile is
reduced by the missile’s Intelligence in meters.

See the Gear section, p. 236, for information about purchasing
missiles.

Missile and Rocket Scatter

Like grenades, missiles and rockets scatter. Their scatter is
reduced by | meter per success generated in targeting the Success
Test. The scatter of missiles is also reduced by 1 meter for every
point of Intelligence they possess.


 

SHADOWRUN 99

 

MELEE COMBAT

Whenever two or more characters engage each other in hand-
to-hand or armed combat, the melee combat system rules apply.
Melee combat in Shadowrun assumes that some maneuvering
occurs as part of the actual combat. Each attack is not a single blow,
but a series of moves and counter-moves executed by those
involved. Even so, for simplicity, the character who initiates the
attack (the character whose action it is) is considered to be the
“attacker.” The opponent is considered to be the “defender.”

RESOLVING MELEE COMBAT

To resolve a melee combat encounter, follow the
procedure outlined below. Detailed explanations follow
the list of steps.

1. Make Attacker’s Test

Roll the attacker's base Combat Skill dice, aug-
mented by dice from his Combat Pool, against a base
Target Number 4, modified as appropriate. Count the
successes.
2. Make Defender’s Test

Roll the defender’s base Combat Skill dice, aug-
mented by dice from his Combat Pool, against a base
Target Number 4, modified as appropriate. Count the
successes.
3. Compare the Successes

The character who rolls the most successes has hit his
or her opponent. A tie goes in favor of the attacker.
4. Determine Damage

The character who hit can increase the Damage Level
of his attack by one level for every two full successes he
rolls above his opponent's success total.
5. Resist Damage

Roll the hit character's Body dice against a target
number equal to the attacker's weapon-modified Strength,
minus the target’s Impact Armor Rating. For every two
successes rolled, the Damage Level is reduced by one
level.

MELEE COMBAT WEAPONS

Melee combat weapons are any weapons wielded in close-
fighting, that is, when the combatants are within a few meters of
each other. In some cases, the weapons may be thrown, but if the
weapon is actually swung, melee combat is used. The Melee
Weapons Table lists the melee weapons, and their game attributes,
available to Shadowrun characters.

Following the table are explanations of the terms used.

 

100 SHADOWRUN
COMBAT

MELEE WEAPONS TABLE
Concealability Reach

Edged Weapons

Katana 1
Knife 0
Sword 1
Pole Arms/Staves

Pole Arm

Staff

Clubs

Club

Sap

Stun Baton

Other

Hand Razor

Spurs

Unarmed

Whips/fFlalls

Monofilament Whip

Damage

(Str + 3)M
(Str)L
(Str + 2)M

(Str + 3)S
(Str + 2)M Stun

(Str + 1)M Stun
(Str + 2)M Stun
6S Stun

(Str)L
(Str)M
(Str)M Stun

10S

750¥

4,500/9,000¥
7,000/1 1,500¥
NA

 

Concealability measures how easy or difficult it is to conceal
the weapon. This rating becomes the target number for Perception
Tests directed at noticing the weapon. See Perception, p. 185. The
asterisk under Hand Razor and Spurs indicates their respective
Concealability Ratings when extended.

Reach is a measure of how long a weapon is. If one character's
weapon Reach exceeds another, he receives a —1 to his target
number for each point his weapon's Reach exceeds his opponent's.
Moreover, his opponent receives a +1 to his target number for each
point his weapon's Reach is inferior to his opponent's. Trolls have
a natural Reach of +1 that is cumulative with weapon Reach.

Damage indicates the overall Damage Code of the weapon.
Most melee weapons, with the exception of the monofilament
whip (whose effect has nothing to do with the force with which it
is wielded) have a base Power equal to the Strength of the wielder,
plus some value. This is expressed, for example, as Str + 2, which
gives 2 additional points to the wielder’s Strength for the Power of
the attack. The higher the weapon's Power Rating, the harder it is
for the target to resist the damage of the attack. The second part of

 

 

the Damage Code is a letter, either L (Light), M (Moderate), S
(Serious), or D (Deadly), which indicates the level of damage done.
See Damage Codes, p. 110, for more information.
Weight indicates the weight of the weapon in kilograms.
Cost is the base cost of the weapon in nuyen.

Attacker’s Success Test

The attacker player rolls a base number of dice equal to his
character's Combat Skill, against a base Target Number 4. Dice from
the Combat Pool may be added to this roll. The base target number
may be modified by the situation. See the Melee Modifiers Table
below. Following the table are further explanations of the situations
listed.

Every die roll result equal to or greater than the modified target
number qualifies as a success. Keep track of the total number of
successes.

MELEE MODIFIERS TABLE

Modifiers
—1/Friend (max
—4)

+1/Friend (max
+4)

Consult the Vis-

Situation
Character has friends in the melee

Opponent has friends in the melee

Visibility impaired

ibility Table
Injury Modifier
Character’s weapon has longer Reach -—-1/point longer
Character’s weapon has inferior Reach +1/point shorter

Character is wounded

Character attacking multiple targets +2/target
Character has superior position -1|
Opponent prone —2

 

SHADOWRUN 101
OO) AVE

Friends in the melee: This modifier applies primarily to large
melees with more than one participant. The character only receives
the modifier if he or his opponent has allies involved in the same
fight. Having allies nearby is not good enough: they must be
actually participating in the same brawl. See also Multiple Oppo-
nents, this page.

Visibility impaired: Consult the Visibility Table, p. 89, using
the modifiers at half their value, rounding down, except for Full
Darkness.

Character wounded: See Damage and Healing, p. | 10.

Reach: See the explanation of reach under Melee Combat
Weapons, p. 100.

Multiple targets: See the Multiple Targets rules, p. 92.

Superior position: A character has a superior position if he is
standing on higher ground (at least one-half meter) than his
opponent, if he is standing on steady, stable ground while the
opponent is not, or if the opponent is in a tight, restricted position
and the character is not.

Opponent Prone: If the opponent is lying on the ground, this
modifier applies.

Defender’s Success Test

Make the defender’s Success Test in the same way as for the
attacker, with the same situation modifiers.

Keep track of the total number of successes.

Compare Successes

After both sides make their tests, compare the successes
generated by each character. The one who generates the most
successes has hit his opponent. Subtract the opponent's success
from the winner's to get the net number of successes. Ties go to the
attacker.

The net number of successes determines how much potential
damage is done.

Zipperhead and Geist are facing offin some dark alley
somewhere in the sprawl. Zipper has Unarmed Combat 5,
Body 5, and 4 dice available in his Combat Pool. Geist has
Unarmed Combat 4, Body 5, and 5 dice available in her
Combat Pool. Both are making tests against a Target
Number 4 (no situation modifiers apply). Both will use all
their Combat Pool dice to assist their attack.

Zipperhead rolls 9 dice, resulting ina 1, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3,
4, 5, and 6. Three of the dice beat a 4, so ole Zip has 3
successes. Geist rolls 9 dice, resulting ina 1, 1, 2, 2, 4, 4,
5, 5, and 6. Geist has 5 successes.

Geist has more successes than Zipperhead, so she
hits. If Zipperhead had rolled more successes, he would
have hit. If they had both generated the same number of
successes, the tie would have gone in Geist’s favor.

 

Determine Damage

The character who generates the most successes, the winner,
can attempt to use those successes to increase the damage his
weapon does. The weapon's Damage Level is increased by one
level for every 2 net successes. Ties are assumed to do the base
damage of the weapon.

The damage Geist does is based on the 2 successes
she rolled above Zipperhead's success total. Her un-
armed Damage Code is 4M Stun (her Strength is 4), so she
can use her 2 successes to raise, or stage, the Damage
Code up one level to Serious Stun.

Damage Resistance Test

The character who was hit now attempts to resist the damage.
He or she rolls Body dice against a target number equal to the
opponent's weapon-modified Strength, minus the character's Im-
pact Armor Rating. Every 2 successes stages, or reduces. the
Damage Code of the weapon by one level.

Zipperhead rolls his 5 Body dice against a base Target
Number of 4 (Geist's Strength), minus the 2 points of
impact armor he wears. This gives him a final target
number of 2. Rolling his 5 dice, he gets a 1, 1, 2, 4, and
a 6. Three of those dice are higher than 2, so Geist has
made 3 successes.

Every 2 successes he generates will stage his dam-
age down one level from where Geist staged it (Serious
Stun). Because Zipperhead has 3 successes, not 4, he can
only reduce the Damage Code by one level, to Moderate
Stun. Zipperhead takes a Moderate Stun wound.

Multiple Targets

Characters may attack more than one opponent with a Com-
plex Action. Each attack uses the base Combat Skill dice of the
character, plus dice from the Combat Pool, if desired. The target
number for each attack is increased by +2 per additional target the
character strikes in that Combat Phase. If a character is attempting
to strike two targets, for example, the first attack is at the calculated
target number, and the second at an additional +2.

Dice from the Combat Pool must be allocated separately for
each attack.

Multiple Opponents

Characters may often find themselves outnumbered in a fight.
When this occurs, the number of friends on hand becomes ex-
tremely important. In such a situation, total up the number of
characters within one meter or so who are fighting in the same fight
as the character. If six friends are around, but they are all spread out
fighting their own combats, they are going to be of no help against
the character's opponent. They do count, however, if they are near
the character and fighting against the same opponent(s). Total up
the number of “friends” on each side. The side with the greater

 

102 SHADOWRUN
SO) yu

number of friends gets a target number modifier of—1 for each friend
more than their opponents, maximum of —4. The side with the
lesser number of friends suffers a +1 target number modifier for each
additional friend their opponents have, maximum of +4.

As characters physically move away, or are taken out of the
fight, they are removed from the count of “friends.”

Called Shots
Characters using melee weapons may call shots, per the rules
on p. 92.

Full Defense

Characters may choose, when attacked, to defend only them-
selves. When doing so, they may not add any Combat Pool dice to
their Attack Success Test, but may add dice to their Damage
Resistance Test. When using this option, a clean miss occurs if the
target's successes from Combat Pool dice alone exceed the attacker's
successes, regardless of any other dice result or the Damage Code
of the weapon.

Knockback and Knockdown

Characters struck in melee combat may be knocked back, and
possibly down, by the blow. When struck, a character must make
a Body Test against a target number equal to his opponent's
Strength. If the character can overcome a Threshold Number equal
to one-half (round off) the amount of damage done (1 for a Light
Wound, 2 for Moderate, and 3 for Serious), there is no effect.

If he generates successes, but does not overcome the Thresh-
old, the character steps directly backward one meter. If for some
reason he cannot step backward (a wall perhaps), he will fight at a
+2 target modifier until able to move away.

If the test generates no successes, the character falls down
(prone).

A character who has suffered a Moderate wound would have
to make more than 2 successes on his Body Test to remain standing
where heis. If he generates 1 or 2 successes, he steps backward one
meter. If he makes no successes, he falls down.

Subduing

Sometimes it is necessary to subdue and control an opponent
without beating him into unconsciousness. To do so, the attacker
must engage in subduing combat.

To subdue a character, resolve combat normally, except that
an additional +2 modifier applies to the target number and that all
damage done must be Stun damage. When one of the characters
takes damage to the “Unconscious” level, he or she is considered
to be subdued and under the control of the victorious character. The
losing character never actually falls unconscious, however. Because
this was subduing combat, the damage done during the combat is
removed from the Condition Monitor at a rate of one box per minute
if the control is not maintained.

The subduing character can attempt to maintain the damage
on the Condition Monitor (to keep control of the defeated character)
by making an Unarmed Combat, Strength, or Quickness Test
against a target number equal to the defeated character's Unarmed
Combat, Strength, or Quickness, whichever is lowest. Each success
restores one box of subduing damage to the Condition Monitor.

 

 

The defeated character can try to resist this by making an opposed
roll using the same rules as above, but with injury modifiers and an
additional +2 modifier applied to the target number. The dominant
character can choose to make this maintenance roll as often as he
wishes.

The victorious character must declare subduing combat at the
start of the combat. At any time during the combat the initiating
character may decide to stop subduing and to fight normally. If this
occurs, it removes all subduing combat damage from the Condition
Monitor. It is not necessary for all the participants in a fight to be
engaged in subduing combat, however. All injury modifiers due to
the subduing damage are applied normally.

Subduing can only be performed with weapons that do Stun
damage.

Monofilament Whip

This weapon is uncommon, and feared, on the streets of the
2050 era. Though not truly monomolecular, the monofilament
whip is capable of inflicting significant damage. The weapon
consists of a short haft that holds the monofilament line when not
in use. The line itself is able to extend out to two meters, hence the
+2 Reach adjustment.

The whip action, the presence of a weighted tip, and the
danger of the monofilament line itself all make wielding the weapon
difficult, at best. If an attack misses solely because the target's
Combat Pool dice successes exceed the attacker's successes (a
possibility only if the optional Full Defense rule isin use), the attacker
risks being hit by the whip. When this occurs, make a separate
Armed Combat Test against a Target Number 6. If the test yields no
successes, the attacker is struck by his own whip.

The attacker, now the target, must make a Damage Resistance
Test (Body dice plus Combat Pool dice) against the standard
Damage Code of the weapon, 10S. Successes from the Damage
Resistance Test stage the damage down one Level for every 2
successes.

Impact armor is used to defend against the monofilament
whip, but its rating is halved (round down). Barrier Ratings are
doubled against a monowhip.

SHOCK WEAPONS

Shock weapons include both melee-combat stun batons and
ranged-combat tasers. Both work on a similar principle, their effect
relying on a contact-discharge of electricity rather than kinetic
energy. The damage each causes is Stun, and combat with a stun
baton (melee) or taser gun (ranged) is handled according to the
normal rules for that type of weapon.

An additional effect of a successful hit by a stun weapon is that
the target is stunned for a number of Combat Turns equal to the
Power of the attack, minus one-half (round down) any Impact armor
worn, and minus the successes generated from a Body or Will-
power (whichever is greater) Test made against a Target Number 4.
This state of disorientation imposes an additional +2 target modifier
to all tests for the duration.

Impact armor is used against shock weapons, except that its
rating is halved, rounding down.

 

SHADOWRUN 103
COMBAT

VEHICLES AND COMBAT

N . Shadowrun is not a vehicle combat game, but characters do
sometimes engage in combat involving vehicles.

VEHICLE RATINGS

Vehicles have Attribute Ratings much like those of characters.
Vehicle ratings are on their own scale, however, and not directly
compatible with character ratings.

Following are explanations of Handling, Speed, Body, Signa-
ture, and Autopilot, the ratings Shadowrun uses for vehicles.

Handling refers to the maneuverability of the vehicle. The
higher the rating, the more difficult it is to control the vehicle.

Speed is a split rating that gives the standard cruising speed
and then the vehicle's top speed, in meters per Combat Turn. To
determine the vehicle's speeds outside of a Combat Turn, multiply
the listed speed by 1.2. The result is in kilometers per hour.

Body is the measure of the vehicle's structural ruggedness and
also acts as a guide to its relative size.

Armor rates the vehicle’s protection against weapon damage.
Vehicle armor acts as a combination of the kind of standard armor
characters wear and as a Barrier Rating. See Vehicles, Weapons,
and Magic for more information, p. 108.

Signature represents the vehicle’s vulnerability to electronic
and thermal detection. The higher the rating, the harder it is to
detect the vehicle.

Autopilot represents the autopilot's ability to control the
vehicle and perceive threats to its progress.

VEHICLE CONTROL RIGS

To become a rigger requires the ability to use a piece of
cyberware known as a vehicle control rig (VCR). This equipment
allows the rigger to cybernetically command a vehicle by jacking
directly into it or to operate the vehicle remotely via a remote-
control deck. The vehicle control rig gives the rigger advantages
such as bonuses to Reaction and Initiative, plus the Control Pool.

Rigger/Vehicle Initiative

A rigger only receives the Reaction and Initiative bonuses for
the vehicle control rig while cyberetically controlling a vehicle.
This may be by direct link into the vehicle, or through a remote link
via a rigger deck. Other types of Reaction- or Initiative-enhancing
cyberware or magics do not assist the rigger while jacked in.

Vehicle Actions and Commands

It requires a Complex Action to command a single vehicle,
regardless of how many are under control at that time. A rigger may
be controlling two drones, for example, but may only command
one of them directly with a Complex Action. If, however, more than
one drone is receiving an identical command—" Leave the area” or
“Attack this target,” for example—the rigger may command them
as a group.

If a drone or remote patrol vehicle (RPV) has an autopilot, the
rigger can issue it one-sentence commands such as “Circle this
area,” “Shoot anyone who comes through this door,” “Follow that
car,” and the like. The more specific and detailed the command, the
greater the chance the autopilot will become confused, however.

 

 

 

104 SHADOWRUN
COMBAT

The gamemaster should rate the command's complexity (use the
Skill Success Table, p. 68), then tell the rigger player the target
number for the test, giving him the option of downgrading the
complexity before actually issuing the command. (It can be as-
sumed that by the year 2053 computers can clearly understand and
interpret plain English-language structure. It can also be assumed
that the rigger knows the capability of the autopilot.)

The gamemaster then makes a test, rolling the vehicle's
Autopilot Rating against the target number. Only one success is
needed for the drone to execute the instruction. The more suc-
cesses rolled, the more latitude the drone has in interpreting the
command (to the benefit of the rigger.) The gamemaster may even
permit the rigger to decide what the drone does in the face of a
circumstance that runs somewhat counter to the rigger’s instruc-
tions.

Itis best to assume that the drone is what is commonly referred
toasa “dog-brain,” that is, capable of responding to commands like
an exceptionally intelligent, highly trained dog. The higher the
Autopilot Rating, the smarter the dog-brain.

TERRAIN

The kind of terrain through which a vehicle is moving affects its
performance. A sports car traveling across wide, open salt flats is
going to cover a lot more ground than if it were winding through
traffic in downtown city streets. In the same manner, an aircraft
traveling through clear skies is going to have a better time of it than
if there was a terrible storm in progress.

The Shadowrun game rates terrain types in terms of Open,
Normal, Restricted, and Tight, with regard to the type of vehicle
involved. Obviously, what is Tight for a sports car is not the same
as what is Tight for an aircraft (at least not until technology advances
a little bit further).

Open terrain means flat areas without buildings, trees, or
other significant features. Highways qualify as Open. For aircraft,
this means cloudless skies, and for boats, smooth water.

Normal terrain means typical countryside and winding roads,
mostly open, but with some obstacles. For aircraft it means partly
cloudy skies, and for boats light seas.

Restricted terrain can be suburban streets, light woods, hilly
areas, and so on. Fog, rain, or darkness can change Normal terrain
to Restricted. Overcast skies and rain constitute overcast skies for
aircraft, and high seas for boats.

Tight terrain includes urban mazes, badlands, and dense
woods. Mist, glare, or low light changes Restricted terrain to Tight,
and smoke, heavy fog, or total darkness change Normal to Tight.
High winds constitute Tight conditions for aircraft and boats.

The gamemaster must set the terrain type for any vehicle in
which action occurs, determining whether it is possible to change
terrain types at that time.

VEHICLE COMBAT

Shadowrun is a roleplaying game and the vehicle combat
system reflects that. It is not intended to be an accurate, detailed
simulation of vehicle combat. Instead, it is a means by which the key
elements of vehicular pursuit can be gamed in a relatively simple,
fast manner.

 

In this system, many of the actions, events, and results of an
actual pursuit have been abstracted for ease of play. For example,
it is assumed that the speed of the vehicles involved is appropriate
for the type of vehicle and the terrain through which they are
traveling. The actual speed need never be stated.

Vehicle Combat Tum

Vehicles use the same Combat Turn as regular characters.
There are, however, some differences. Use the Combat Tum
Sequence, from p. 78, but add the following subsections as
needed.

1. Determine Initiative

Before determining Initiative, resolve A and B below
for riggers. Once that has been done, determine Initiative
normally.

A. Allocate Control Pool Dice

The rigger must decide which dice from the Control
Pool will be available for the remainder of the Vehicle Tum,
and which are to be used for the Position Test.

B. Make Position Test

Make a Position Test, explained below, for all ve-
hicles involved in the Combat Turn. Roll the appropriate
Vehicle Skill, plus Control Pool dice, against the Handling
of the vehicle, modified by the terrain. The outcome
depends on the successes and whether the vehicle is
fleeing, pursuing, or fighting.
2. Resolve Actions

Character actions are resolved normally, but within
the parameters defined in Resolving Actions, p. 106,
below.
3. Begin New Combat Tum

Prior to beginning a new Combat Tum, riggers must
make an Escape Test.

A. Make Escape Test (End of Tum)

Riggers who choose Flight in the Position Test may
now attempt to escape completely. See Escape Tests, p.
107, for more information.

Allocating Control Pool Dice

A rigger with a Control Pool must now decide how many of its
dice he will use in the next step, the Position Test. The rest of the
dice may be reserved for other uses, as needed.

The Control Pool refreshes at the beginning of each of the
rigger’s actions, but the player removes the dice spent in the
Position Test each time the pool refreshes.

Making the Position Test

At the beginning of every Combat Turn and before determining
Initiative, players must make Position Tests for vehicles involved in
that turn. The purpose of the test is to determine the relative
position of the various vehicles engaged in the combat. Each driver
involved may have a different intention in the test, these being
Fleeing, Pursuit, or Fight.

 

SHADOWRUN 105

Fleeing involves maneuvering the vehicle to escape from
combat or any pursuers. The driver's objective is to widen the
distance between the vehicles so that escape is possible.

Pursult is just the opposite. A pursuing driver wants to catch
up to a fleeing vehicle to prevent it from escaping.

A driver who chooses Fight is primarily interested in getting a
clear shot at the opponent, or more correctly, as many clear shots
at the opponent as he can manage. Getting the shot is the primary
concern.

The various sides choose their individual intentions in secret,
only revealing their choices after making the Position Tests.

To make the Position Test, roll the Vehicle Skill of the driving
character against a target number equal to the vehicle’s Handling
Rating, modified by the type of terrain on which the vehicle is
traveling. Consult the table below. If the driver of the vehicle has a
Control Pool, he may add any dice allocated to the Position Test at
the beginning of the turn roll.

Determine each side’s successes. What each side does with
their successes depends on whether their intention was flight,
pursuit, or combat.

POSITION TEST MODIFIERS
Terrain Modifier

Open 0

Normal +1
Restricted +2
Tight +4

Fleeing Vehicles

Each success in the Position Test allows the fleeing vehicle to
travel a number of meters equal to its cruising speed. If, for
example, the driver of a vehicle with a cruising speed of 20 rolled
4 successes on the Position Test, he would travel eighty meters.

Additionally, for every 2 successes generated, each character in
the vehicle can spend one full action conducting attacks against a
pursuing vehicle (subject to weapon availability and so on). If 6
successes are generated, characters in the vehicle can spend up to
three actions each to attack a pursuing vehicle. A character who is
only eligible for two actions that Combat Tum will still have only two
actions, however. Only if the character had three or more eligible
actions could he use all three actions on a roll of 6 successes.

There is also a chance that at the end of this Combat Turn the
fleeing vehicle evades pursuit and escapes. See Escape Test, p.
107, for more details. Keep track of the number of successes
generated in the Position Test because it will affect the Escape Test.

Pursuit

Vehicles in pursuit use Position Test successes in the same way
as fleeing vehicles, except that they are able to close a distance
equal to the vehicle's cruising speed multiplied by the number of
successes. They also get to attack the fleeing vehicle once for every
2 successes generated.

Keep track of the number of successes generated in the
Position Test for use in the Escape Test later in the turn.

 

Fight

The fight option is the choice of warriors. In choosing this
option, the player character may have to maneuver the vehicle out
of position, in terms of flight or pursuit, in order to make the attack.

Vehicles intending to fight may make a number of attacks
against the opposing vehicle equal to the number of successes
generated in the Position Test.

For every 2 successes, they also get to open or close the
distance between themselves and the other vehicle by a number of
meters equal to the vehicle’s cruising speed.

Relative Distances

When one vehicle closes on another by traveling a greater
distance than the other vehicle in that Combat Tum, the driver may
choose the final distance between the two vehicles. Say, forexample,
that the vehicles begin the Combat Tum with 20 meters between
them. The fleeing vehicle travels another 30 meters, while the
pursuing vehicle travels 45 meters. The pursuing vehicle has gained
15 meters on the fleeing vehicle, cutting the distance between them
to 5 meters. The pursuing vehicle could, in this situation, choose the
final distance between them as anything between 5 meters (the
maximum gain) and 20 meters (the original distance between them).

Vehicles closer than 1 meter are in a potential ram situation.
The collision only occurs, however, if the driver of one of the
vehicles chooses to spend a Complex Action ramming the other
vehicle. See Ramming, below.

Alrbome Vehicles and Terrain

When a mix of ground and airbome vehicles are involved, such
as when a helicopter is chasing a motorcycle, it is likely that the
encounter will include more than one terrain type. The gamemaster
may wish to take into account factors like building height and the like
when determining the type of terrain for each vehicle. For example,
the motorcycle might be traveling through Restricted suburban
streets, while overhead the helicopter might very well be in Open
terrain. If, however, the motorcycle were traveling the streets of
downtown (Tight terrain), the helicopter might also be traveling in
Tight terrain because of the height of buildings.

Determining Initiative

Now it is time for the participants to determine Initiative, in the
usual manner. Characters using vehicle control rigs to operate a
vehicle may add the Reaction and Initiative bonuses gained from that
piece of cyberware. Also apply any Initiative modifiers related to
vehicle damage at this time, reducing the driver's effective Reaction.

The rigger determines only one Initiative total, regardless of the
number of vehicles being controlled. The rigger’s Initiative is equal to
the lowest Initiative result for all the vehicles under control. Obvi-
ously, if they all have the same damage status, the numbers will come
out the same. If the vehicles have different damage statuses, use the
number for the vehicle in the worst condition.

Resolving Actions

Player characters involved in the Combat Tum may now take
actions as they come to their appropriate Combat Phases. Remember,
each character can only conduct a limited number of attacks against
the opposing vehicle, based on the results of the Position Test.

 

106 SHADOWRUN
COMBAT

The driver of the vehicle must spend at least one Complex
Action—it does not matter which one—to control the vehicle. No
tests are necessary; he simply spends the action. If he uses no
action, the driver must make a Crash Test at the end of his last Action
of that turn. (See Crash Tests, below.)

The driver may use dice from the Control Pool to assist the test
against any incoming attacks, but he may not use Control Pool dice
to help defend against magical combat spell attacks or the damage
resistance part of Crash Tests.

Dice from the Control Pool may also assist in any Handling Tests.

Crash Test

Crash Tests are required in any Combat Phase where the
vehicle takes Serious damage. The driver makes a test using the
appropriate Vehicle Skill against a target number based on the
vehicle’s Handling and the terrain, per the Crash Test Table below.
Control Pool dice may be added to this roll.

If the driver fails the test, the vehicle crashes. The Power of the
crash is equal to the cruising speed of the vehicle, divided by 10,
rounding down. The Damage Code is also based on the cruising
speed of the vehicle. Consult the Impact Table.

CRASH TEST TABLE
Terrain Modifier
Open -1
Normal 0
Tight +2
Restricted

IMPACT TABLE
Damage Category
Light (L)
Moderate (M)
Serious (S)

Deadly (D)

The Damage Resistance Test uses the vehicle's Body, plus one-
half the vehicle armor (round down) against the Power of the attack.
The Power of this attack is reduced only by the full value of the
vehicle armor, not by its Body as well, as against weapon damage.
Every 2 successes reduces the Damage Code by one level. Control
Pool dice may NOT assist this Test.

Passengers traveling in the vehicle may also be injured in the
crash. If the vehicle’s Damage Resistance Test eliminates the
damage, the passengers are free from worry. If the vehicle does
take damage, the passengers will suffer an attack equal to the crash
damage. The Damage Code is the one to which the crash damage
is reduced, however. If the crash damage starts at Deadly and is
reduced to Moderate, the passengers will suffer an attack with the
same Power as the crash damage, but a Damage Code of Moderate.
This damage is resisted as damage from melee combat. Combat
Pool dice can never be applied, and only impact armor counts.

A crash stops a vehicle’s travel for the remainder of that
Combat Turn, eliminating any distance won in the Position Test.

 

 

 

The driver must also make a Crash Test at the end of his last action
if he spent no action controlling the vehicle anytime during the tum.
The Crash Test is resolved in the same manner as described above.

If a vehicle takes so much damage from weapons that it is
destroyed, the result is an automatic crash.

Ramming

When the distance between two vehicles is less than one
meter, one of the drivers involved can choose to ram the other
vehicle. In other words, the driver of one vehicle is attempting to
force the other to make a Crash Test. The Control Pool applies.

To resolve the ram, make a test for each of the two vehicles,
rolling dice equal to the driver's Vehicle Skill, plus Body, plus one-
half vehicle armor (round down), minus the vehicle’s Handling. The
target number is equal to the Body of the opposing vehicle, plus
one-half its vehicle armor, minus a terrain modifier.

Apply the modifier for the terrain in which the pursuing vehicle
is traveling. (It is, of course, very difficult to escape from aircraft.)

The vehicle that generates the least number of successes must
make a Crash Test. If there is a tie, there is no crash.

RAMMING TABLE
Terrain
Open

Modifier

Normal
Restricted
Tight

 

Escape Test

Vehicles that choose flight in the Position Test may now
attempt to escape completely. Compare the successes generated
by both sides in the Position Test. If the pursuing or fighting vehicle
has more successes, the escape attempt has automatically failed.

If the fleeing vehicle generated more successes, it may yet get
away. The pursuing vehicle must now make an Escape Test against
a target number equal to the net successes generated by the fleeing
vehicle, modified per the table below.

ESCAPE TEST MODIFIERS
Terrain Modifier
Open 4

Normal —2
Restricted 0
Tight +2

 

The pursuing vehicle can choose to make the test with the
highest Intelligence Rating of the character potentially able to see
the fleeing vehicle. If no successes are generated in this test, the
fleeing vehicle has escaped.

Beginning a New Tum
Start a new tum by reallocating Control Pool dice for a new
Position Test.

 

SHADOWRUN 107
 

VEHICLES, WEAPONS, AND
MAGIC

Weapons use the same Damage Codes against vehicles (hard
targets) as they do against other characters (soft targets), but with
some differences and restrictions.

Against vehicles without vehicle armor, a vehicle’s Body
counts as composite armor (impact and ballistic) and reduces the
Power of the attack. Otherwise, resolving weapon damage is the
same. The vehicle's Body also determines the number of dice rolled
when resisting damage. A weapon’s Damage Code Is also reduced
by one level (D to S, S to M, and M to L). Weapons rated as Light
are unable to affect vehicles unless using special ammunition or
when attacking for something vital (see Called Shots, p. 92.)

In attacks against vehicles with vehicle armor, the armor acts
as a Barrier Rating. That is, if the base Power of the weapon,
unmodified by burst or full auto fire, does not exceed the rating of
the vehicle armor, it will not penetrate.

The Power and Damage Codes for grenades and other explo-
sives are affected in the same manner, with the exception of anti-
vehicle rockets and missiles. Those weapons have a semiarmor-
piercing warhead and do not have their Damage Level reduced, but
the Power is reduced by the vehicle’s armor.

When resisting damage, a driver whose vehicle has vehicle
armor rolls a number of dice equal to the Body of the vehicle, plus
one-half the vehicle armor against a target number equal to the
Power of the weapon, minus the Body plus vehicle Armor Ratings.
Riggers may allocate dice from their Control Pools if they choose.

Shooting at Moving Targets

For attacks against a moving target, consult the table below for
additional maneuvering-based modifiers. Compare the speed of
the firing vehicle or the vehicle from which the character(s) is firing
against the speed of the target.

Stationary attackers have a speed of 5. When using the vehicle
combat rules, p. 105, compare the vehicles’ cruising speeds.

MOVING TARGET TABLE
Relative Speeds Modifier
Target's speed less than or equal to Attacker’s 0

Target's speed up to twice the Attacker’s +2
Twice to three times higher +4
More than three times higher +6

 

Breaking Windows

Though the Shadowrun vehicle damage system does not use
specific damage locations, it is sometimes necessary to know
whether or not a vehicle’s windows have shattered.

It is assumed that civilian vehicles taking Moderate damage
have one or more windows blown out or shattered. Military and
security vehicles, on the other hand, have reinforced windows that
do not shatter or blow out until the vehicle takes Serious damage.

Aircraft whose windows have shattered or blown out must
immediately descend toa safe, oxygen-rich altitude. Because none
of the Shadowrun vehicle systems are concerned with altitude, this
is more a note for roleplaying.

 

108 SHADOWRUN
COMBAT

Combat Spells against Vehicles

Only physical combat spells that do physical damage can affect
vehicles. Mana spells affect minds and living things, while physical
spells affect physical things.

A physical combat spell cast against a vehicle has a Target
Number 8 because of the machine’s complex technological and
electronic nature. The vehicle resists damage by making a standard
Spell Resistance Test in the same manner as a person in that vehicle
can attempt to resist the casting magician’s successes. The dice rolled
for the vehicle's Resistance Test is equal to its Body, plus one-half any
vehicle armor. The target number for this test is equal to the Force of
the spell.

A player can allocate Spell Defense dice to assist a vehicle. In
some instances, this is a particularly efficient use of these dice. (See
Spell Defense Dice, p. 132.)

If the casting magician’s Spell Success Test produces extra
successes beyond what the vehicle’s Spell Resistance Test pro-
duced, damage is done. Damage is calculated in the same manner
as for damage against characters.

Gamemasters and players are referred to Spells and Astral
Space, p. 149. Keeping that section in mind, vehicles have simple,
limited auras that make them vulnerable to physical combat spells.
The attempt is difficult; hence the high target number. A vehicle is
considered a single, complete entity. Its wheels and windshield, for
example, are not directly connected and may be constructed from
different materials, but they are interrelated components. Because of
avehicle’s “aural wholeness,” amage cannot use magic to selectively
target an individual portion of the vehicle. Single-target combat spells
like bolt and missile spells affect a vehicle in the same manner as an
area-effect spell. A magician cannot cast an area-effect spell and then
catch individual parts of the vehicle in order to attack them separately.

Damaging Manipulations against Vehicles

Damaging manipulation spells do damage against vehicles as
if they were regular weapons, and are treated as such. They do not,
however, suffer the reductions in Power and Damage Code.

Hitting Walls

Sometimes, vehicles hit things their drivers don’t wish them
to. Under certain conditions this is simulated in the Combat Turn by
the Crash Test. At other times, a different system is neccessary to
determine the result of an impact.

Let us say that Nick Nightmare on his Aurora racing bike is
roaring through the Seattle night with visions of some form of barely
legal debauchery filling his tiny mind. Unknown to Nick, a wiz-kid
mage has erected a barrier spell in Nick’s path. Blindly, and with an
anticipatory grin on his face, Nick races straight into it.

What happens depends on exactly what type of barrier spell it
was.

If the wiz-kid cast a straight mana barrier spell, Nick would have
some problems. Not being living, the Aurora racing bike is unaf-
fected by the mana barrier spell and roars on into the night. Whether
Nick is still seated on it is another question entirely.

Nick hits the mana barrier as if he were hitting a wall. The speed
at which he hits that wall is the speed at which his bike was traveling.
Treat the barrier like an actual, physical wall with a Barrier Rating equal
to the Force of the spell. When Nick hits the barrier, he may take damage.

 

 

The Power of the impact is equal to the speed of the vehicle in
meters per Combat Turn, divided by 10 (round down). Thus, if Nick
were traveling at the bike’s maximum of 210 meters per combat
turn, the Power would be a nasty 21. If he were traveling at its
cruising speed of 70 meters per combat tum, it would be a 7. (By
the way, two bikes hitting head-on would add their individual
speeds together to get the net speed of the impact.) The damage
is calculated exactly as for Crash Tests, so consult that section to
determine the Damage Code, which is also speed-based.

If this incident were to occur as part of the Combat Turn (say,
as the result of an action by an imaginative magician), then the
vehicle's cruising speed would be used to find the Power.

Hitting this barrier poor Nick would face the equivalent of a
21D attack. He can make a normal Damage Resistance Test. If he is
aware of the impact, he may add dice from his Combat Pool. If Nick
had been traveling at a more leisurely 70 meters per Combat Turn,
the Damage Code would be 7S. Note that armor does not help Nick
because this is a mana spell that ignores the armor.

See the Blast against Barriers section, p. 97, for handling
damage against walls. Spells whose Barrier Rating (Force) drops to
Oare knocked down. If the spell is not knocked to 0, it automatically
rebuilds itself during the casting magician’s next action.

If Nick had been traveling in an enclosed car, he and the vehicle
would have blithely passed through the mana barrier spell, com-
pletely unaffected by it.

If the barrier spell were physical or a wall, the Aurora would
also be in trouble. In fact, the bike would hit the barrier before Nick,
and that impact would have to be resolved before dealing with the
effect on Nick. All other values remain the same as for Nick, but the
vehicle makes its Damage Resistance Test with its Body dice, plus
one-half its vehicle armor, rounding down.

If the barrier breaks as a result of the impact (is reduced to 0),
Nick must make a Crash Test, per p. 107. If the barrier does not
break, Nick (or the passenger of any vehicle) suffers an attack of the
same Power as the bike, but at one Damage Code Level less.

VEHICLE DAMAGE

Vehicles use a standard Condition Monitor marked off in
Condition Levels of Light, Moderate, Serious, and Destroyed. Just
as a regular character receives modification based on his damage
status, so does a vehicle.

The table below indicates the effects of damage on vehicles.

The vehicle damage modifier applies to all tests that actually
involve the vehicle.

The Initiative modifier reduces the effective Reaction of the
character controlling the vehicle.

The Speed modifier reduces the vehicle’s cruising speed and
maximum speed.

VEHICLE DAMAGE MODIFIERS
Vehicle Target Speed
Damage

Light +1
Moderate 75%
Serious +3

No change

 

SHADOWRUN 109
4
HL

Serer terry me tt ee

 

 

JANET Aus 1992.

DAMAGE AND HEALING

As one might expect, Shadowrun characters can get hurt.
What kind of damage, how bad an injury, and how much it affects
the character varies greatly.

TYPES OF INJURY
Damage occurs as one of two types: Physical and Stun. The two
types of damage are kept track of separately.

Physical Damage

Physical Damage is the most dangerous of the two. It is the
kind of damage done by guns, explosions, bladed or sharp weap-
ons, and most magic spells. If the Damage Code of a weapon does
not indicate either Physical or Stun damage, the weapon does
Physical damage. Weapons that do Stun damage always say so.

As one might expect, Physical damage takes the most time to
heal.

Stun Damage

Stun damage is usually bruising damage, muscle fatigue, and
the like, and is the kind done by fists, kicks, blunt weapons, stun
rounds, shock weapons, concussion grenades, spellcasting fatigue,
and as the effect of some magic spells. If something does Stun
damage, its Damage Code will always say Stun.

Stun damage heals fairly quickly, but its immediate effects can
be as deadly as Physical damage.

DAMAGE CODES

As discussed previously, all weapons have Damage Codes that
indicate how difficult it is to avoid or resist the damage, and how
serious are the actual wounds the weapon causes. For convenience,
those rules are reviewed here, as well as expanded upon.

A weapon's Damage Code consists of two parts, a numeral for
the Power and a letter for the Damage Level. Damage Codes are
always listed as: 4L, 10M, 6D, and so on.

Power

A weapon's Power is the first part of the Damage Code. This
number is used as the target for any Success Tests to avoid or resist
the damage caused by the weapon. It is often modified by some
resisting value, such as body armor.

If, for example, a character is hit by a weapon with a Power of
6, the target number for the character's Success Tests to avoid or
resist the damage would be 6, assuming the number was not
modified by the presence of armor.

Damage Level

The second part of the Damage Code is the Damage Level. This
letter code indicates the base severity of the damage done by the
weapon. The four possible levels are “L” for Light, “M” for Moder-
ate, “S” for Serious, and “D” for Deadly.

Everything else being equal, a character struck by a weapon with
a given Damage Level (L, M, S, or D) will take a Light, Moderate,
Serious, or Deadly wound, as appropriate. Usually, however, the
Damage Level is increased or reduced in some manner before the
damage is applied to the character. This process is known as staging.

 

110 SHADOWRUN
The attacking character, using the successes generated from
his Success Test, can stage the weapon up one Damage Level for
every 2 successes generated. So, if he is using a weapon that has
a base Damage Level of M and if he has generated 4 successes in
his Success Test, the attacking character could stage the weapon's
damage to D (2 successes increase the Damage Level to S and 2
more increase it to D).

The target or defending character is trying to do just the
opposite. The defender wants to stage the weapon damage down.
The weapon's Damage Code can be staged down one level for
every 2 successes the defender generates. If, for example, the
defender generated 4 successes against a weapon doing Serious
damage, the damage would become Light (2 successes stage it
down to M, and 2 more stage it to L).

The successes of the participants are usually compared, and
the character with the higher net successes wins and stages the
damage accordingly. See Resolving Ranged Combat, p. 87, and
Resolving Melee Combat, p. 100, for information and procedures
related to those types of combat.

If the weapon damage is staged below Light (the level is
already at L and at least 2 more successes remain to be used for
staging), then no damage is done. On the other end of the
spectrum, deadly damage is the highest level of damage possible.

APPLYING DAMAGE

Once the damage has been staged, the character is subject to
any damage that remains. This remaining damage is recorded on
the character’s Condition Monitor. The Condition Monitor, shown
below, has two columns; Physical and Stun. Physical damage is
recorded in the Physical column and Stun damage in the Stun
column.

The number of boxes filled in on the monitor depends on the
final, staged Damage Code of the weapon. Consulting the table
below, one can see that a previously unharmed character taking
either Physical or Stun damage would have 1 box filled in if the
weapon did Light damage, 3 boxes if Moderate damage, 6 for
Serious, and all 10 for Deadly.

Damage is cumulative, so a character who already has 3 boxes
filled in (from a Moderate wound) and who takes another Moderate
wound would then have a total of 6 boxes filled in, for the equivalent
of a Serious wound. If the character had taken a Light wound, he
would have 4 boxes filled in (3 + 1), and if he had taken a Serious,
he would have a total of 9 boxes filled in.

     
     
 
   
   

CONDITION MONITOR
LIGHT — MODERATE SERIOUS DEADLY
STUN STUN STUN STUN

      

STUN

PHYSICAL

          

   

LIGHT MODERATE SERIOUS DEADLY
WOUND WOUND WOUND WOUND

PHYSICAL DAMAGE OVERFLOW [__]

 

 

 

DAMAGE LEVEL TABLE
Number of Boxes
Filled In
1
Moderate 3
Serious 6
Deadly 10

Exceeding the Condition Monitor

What happens when the total number of boxes filled in within
a column (Physical or Stun) exceeds 10? If the damage is Stun, it
then carries over into the Physical column. That is, a character who
has already taken a Serious Stun wound (6 boxes) takes another
Serious Stun hit. Serious does 6 boxes, so the last 4 boxes in the Stun
column would be filled in, and the remaining 2 boxes would be
filled in on the Physical column. If there was already damage in the
Physical column, this damage is treated as if it were additional
Physical damage and added to the existing damage. When the Stun
column is exceeded, the character also falls unconscious. Con-
sciousness is not regained until Stun damage is healed and the
damage removed from the Stun column. See Healing, p. 1 12.

 

If the Physical column is exceeded, the character is in trouble.
Overflowing the Physical column means the character is near death.
Instant death occurs only if the Physical column is exceeded by
more than the character's natural Body Rating. If the character takes
more damage than 10 plus his Body Rating, he or she is dead.

Characters who have exceeded their Physical column, but not
by more than their Body Rating, can still survive if they receive
prompt medical attention. If unattended, the character takes an
additional box of damage every 10 minutes. If this exceeds the
character's Body Rating plus 10 before medical help arrives, the
character is dead. See Deadly Wounds and First Ald, p. 115, forthe
rules governing medical aid to characters in that condition.

 

SHADOWRUN 111
 

ArT ul

CONDITION LEVELS

As the damage a character has taken exceeds certain levels on
the Condition Monitor, the character is subject to certain effects.
This simulates the effects of the character's injuries on his body.
Condition Levels within a column are not cumulative; the highest
level reached is used. Condition Levels are cumulative across
columns, though, so a character that is Moderately wounded in the
Stun column and Lightly wounded in the Physical column receives
modifiers for both (+2/—2 for the Stun damage and +1/-1 for the
Physical damage, for a total of +3/—3).

CONDITION MONITOR

STUN

PHYSICAL

PHYSICAL DAMAGE OVERFLOW



The Damage Modifiers Table shows what effect injury has on
acharacter’s attempts to use skills and abilities and how it affects his
Initiative total.

The Injury Modifier is a universal target number modifier that
applies to nearly all Success Tests the injured character may
attempt, except those involving attempts to resist damage or avoid
damage.

The Initiative Modifier is applied to the character's Reaction
before Initiative dice have been rolled. If the Initiative modifier
reduces the Character’s Reaction to O or less, the character cannot
take any actions that Combat Turn.

DAMAGE MODIFIERS TABLE
Injury Initiative
Modifier Modifier
None None

Damage
Level
Uninjured

Light +1
Moderate +2
Serious +3

Deadly —Unconscious or Near Death—

HEALING

Healing takes time. The more injured a character is the longer
it takes. Stun and Physical damage heal differently, and at different
rates.

Healing Stun Damage

Technically, overcoming Stun damage is more a process of
recovery than healing because Stun is not actual, real, damage. How
long Stun takes to recover is based on the amount of Stun damage
taken, and the results of a Body or Willpower (whichever is higher)
Test. To recover from Stun damage, roll either Body or Willpower dice
against a base Target Number of 2. This target number is modified by
any injury modifiers, Stun or Physical, the character currently has.

Actual recovery of a box of Stun damage takes a base time of
60 minutes. The actual time it takes to recover | box of Stun damage
is equal to the base time, divided by the number of successes
generated. After this period has elapsed, the character has recov-
ered 1 box of Stun damage, and the damage is erased from the
Condition Monitor. A character who has been knocked unconscious
from Deadly Stun will not wake up until his or her Stun damage is
reduced to Serious. To recover from Stun damage the character
must be resting completely. If this resting time is interrupted, the
recovery process aborts and the character will have to make the
Body or Willpower Test again, using his current condition. The result
can never be better than the result of the first roll, however.

Resting is the only way that Stun damage can be recovered. No
medical treatment really helps, nor does any magical spell currently
known to man. Stim patches provide a temporary solution, with
definite long-term drawbacks. See Stimulant Patch, p. 250 of the
Gear chapter.

Healing Physical Damage
Physical damage takes much longer to heal than Stun damage.
Though Physical damage often heals without the benefit of medical

 

112 SHADOWRUN
COMBAT

attention, that is not always the case. When the adventure is over,
or when a sufficiently long time-break occurs within the story, each
wounded character makes a Body Test against a target number set
by his or her overall wound level. Only the character’s natural Body
Rating should be used; cyberware doesn't help.

WOUND TABLE
Wound Level Target Number

Light
Moderate
Serious

If the test yields any successes, the character heals without
medical attention. If the test results in no successes, medical
attention is required for healing to occur. Deadly wounds always
require medical attention.

The effects of First Ald and Magical Healing (see p. 115)
should be applied before making the test for medical attention.

Stages of Healing

Actual healing occurs in stages, with each one stage reducing
the character’s damage by one level. After one stage of healing,
Deadly would become Serious, Serious become Moderate, and so
on. When one Damage Level is healed, the Condition Monitor
drops to the lowest point for the next Damage Level. A character
who has a Serious wound drops to having only 3 boxes filled in
when his Condition Level is reduced to Moderate, no matter how
many Serious damage boxes had been filled in.

Healing takes time, and it will also take money, if a doctor is
involved. To determine how long it takes a character to heal one
Damage Level, consult the Healing Table.

HEALING TABLE
Min. Target
Time Number
3 days 10

2 days 8 High

1 day 6 Middle
2 hours 4 Low

Base
Time

30 days
20 days
10 days
24 hours

Lifestyle
Hospitalized

Damage

Level

Dead
Serious
Moderate
Light

To determine how long healing actually takes, make a Body
Test against the appropriate target number from the table. There are
some modifiers. If a doctor is involved, (one with a real medical
degree, not just Biotech Skill), consult the Doctoring Table below.
If the character is unable to support the Minimum Lifestyle required
for healing, he suffers additional modifiers based on his condition
(gamemaster discretion). Lifestyle cost can be paid for daily. Simply
divide the cost for the month by 30. See Lifestyles, p. 189, for more
information.

Divide the successes from the Body Test into the base time to
determine the actual healing time. Regardless of the results of the
test or the quality of care, the actual time can never be lower than
the Minimum Time listed on the table.

 

DOCTORING TABLE

Situation Modifier
Intensive care (hospital only) —2
Long-term magical care 2
Conditions (only one applies)

Not in hospital or clinic +2

Bad conditions +3

Terrible conditions +4
Patient is magician +2
Patient’s natural Body Attribute is*

1-3

46

7-9

10 or more
Patient’s natural Willpower Attribute is*

1-3

46 « -1

7-9 -2

10 or more -3
*Not including magical spell-based or cybernetic modifi-
cations.

Medical Costs

If there is a doctor involved, there is probably a bill to pay.
Consult the Medical Costs Table immediately following to deter-
mine the fiscal damage.

MEDICAL COSTS TABLE
Service
Paramedic first aid for:
Deadly wound
Serious wound
Moderate wound
Light wound 50¥
Doctor's services for:
Deadly wound
Serious wound
Moderate wound
Light wound
Hospitalization Lifestyle
(Includes doctor's services) 500¥ per day
Intensive Care (Deadly wounds only) 1 ,0OO¥ per day

400¥
200¥

400¥ per day
200¥ per day
100¥ per day
50¥ per day

Deadly Wounds and Permanent Damage

When a character suffers a Deadly wound, there is a chance of
permanent damage to a vital organ, limb, or biological system.
Make a Body Test (dermal armor counts) against a Target Number
4. If a trauma patch was used, apply a +2 modifier.

0 Successes: Bad luck. Some vital organ, body part, or system
has been gravely damaged. The patient must be kept under continu-
Ous treatment by another character with Biotech Skill even if the
wounded character has been stabilized. Double the time for the entire
healing process. A replacement organ of one kind or another must be

 

SHADOWRUN 113
COMB

transplanted. This requires drastic invasive surgery and areplacement
organ (see Pieces and Parts). Roll 1D6 for the actual damage result:

Die Roll Result

Lose 1 point of Body

Lose 1 point of Strength
Lose 1 point of Quickness
Lose 1 point of Intelligence
Lose 1 point of Willpower
Lose 1 point of Reaction

An WN —

The Attribute points lost in this manner cannot be recovered,
though they can be replaced by cybernetic or other means. The loss
of an Attribute point in this manner drops the character's Racial
Maximum for that Attribute by 1 point.

1 Success: A limb or eye has been mangled beyond its ability
to heal. A replacement is required, either natural or cyber. This adds
to the normal healing costs and may mean having to wait to get the
replacement before healing can begin. Increase the base healing
time by 50 percent. This requires major invasive surgery and a
replacement eye or limb (see Pieces and Parts). Roll 1D6 for the
actual damage result:

Die Roll Result

Lose right arm

Lose left arm

Lose right leg

Lose left leg

Lose an ear (Roll 1D6: 1-3 right ear, 4-6 left)
Lose an eye (Roll 1D6: 1-3 right eye, 4—6 left)

Aw PWN —

2 Or More Successes: The character takes no limb or organ
damage.

Pieces and Parts

When a character loses a body part and needs a replacement,
the part might not be immediately available. Those who want a
complete DNA match will have to have the part grown. (Of course,
a DocWagon™ platinum service contract includes a “donor coun-
terpart” that can provide material for immediate transplant starting
three months into the contract.)

Transplants have varying degrees of compatibility with the
recipient. Over time or when subjected to severe stress (like more
Deadly damage), the transplant may fail, requiring another replace-
ment. The gamemaster decides when to invoke the possibility of
failure, so be nice and kiss up often.

BODY PART TYPES
Base Time
To Grow

Body Part

Eye or Small Organ 3 weeks
Large Organ 5 weeks
Hand/Foot 6 weeks
Limb 8 weeks

 

 

 

In addition to the type of replacement, a variety of different
grades exist, at varying availability, compatibility, and costs. The
best is clonal (a precise duplicate of the character's own part), while
the worst is secondhand (somebody else's part; don't ask).

BODY PART GRADES
Grade Availability Compatibility Cost
Clonal Must grow 100% Base x 2
Type 0 3in6 90% Base
Type G 5in6 75% Base x .8
2nd Hand Always 3D6 x 5% Base x .4

Chance of Failure Under Stress

Compatibility
100% No chance

90 — 99% 3 or less on 2D6
70 — 89% 4 or less on 2D6
40 - 69% 5 or less on 2D6

10-39% 6 or less on 2D6

Clonal parts that must be grown can be force-grown through a
special process. To determine the actual time divide the Force Growth
Rating (a player-chosen maximum of 10) into the part’s base time to
grow. Forced Growth increases the part cost and rating, however, and
reduces the compatibility by the rating in percentage.

Cyber Replacements
Cyberware can be installed to replace the damaged or lost body
part. See the rules for Elective Surgery, for implanting cyberware.

ELECTIVE SURGERY

Surgery does damage. Medical technology will not let a
patient die on the table, but one cannot just bop into a clinic, geta
full dermal armor implant, and then jog out the next day to kick butt.
Recovery takes a while.

Minor cosmetic surgery gives a character a Light wound. This
covers anything that does not cost Essence, and consists of minor
plastic surgery not involving the eyes, muscles, or nervous system.
Examples are a nose job or an ear-bobbing.

Minor invasive surgery gives a character a Moderate wound.
Minor surgery includes anything costing up to .4 points of Essence,
or any cosmetic surgery involving the whole body, eyes, muscles,
or nervous system. Getting a crest that can be raised or lowered
(nerve connections required) or a whole-body skin graft would
come under this category.

Major invasive surgery gives a character a Serious wound.
Any procedure costing .41 to .99 points of Essence is major. This
category also includes any organic limb replacements or eye
transplants. New eyes are blind until fully healed from this surgery.

Drastic invasive surgery leaves a character with a Deadly
wound, but the condition is stable and the character will not die.
Drastic surgery is any procedure costing ! or more points of
Essence. This category also includes any organ transplants. Magi-
cians are required to check for Magic loss after healing (see p. 1 15).

Calculate the Essence costs of all the cyberware the character
is having installed at the same time. (The character cannot have
additional cyberware installed until all healing is complete, so he

 

114 SHADOWRUN
SO] Aus

may as well do it all at once.) Surgery costs do not include the cost
of recovery!

FIRST AID

For the times when a wound cannot wait for professional
medical assistance, the Biotech Skill is used for first aid. It can reduce
wounds that are not Deadly, or stabilize Deadly wounds until the
character can be taken to a doctor. Biotech only helps Physical
damage, not Stun. Stun can only be recovered by resting.

In order to be effective, first aid must be applied during the
“golden” first hour following an injury. Regardless of the success, first
aid is no longer of any use once magical healing has been applied.

To apply first aid, make a Biotech Success Test against a target
number that corresponds to the injured character's current Damage
Level from the First Aid Table. Then apply the target number modifiers
that follow.

FIRST AID TABLE
Condition Target
Level Number
Light 4
Moderate 6
Serious 8
Deadly 10

Treatment
Time

10 minutes
20 minutes
30 minutes

Special

Target Number Modifiers

Situation Modifier
Patient is a magician +2
Bad conditions +1
Terrible conditions +3
Patient's Body Attribute

1-3

46

7-9

10 or more
No medkit available

If the test results in at least 1 success the Damage Level is
reduced by one level. The Damage Level can never be reduced by
more than one level through first aid. To determine how long the
first aid treatment takes, divide the Biotech successes into the
treatment time. The result is the number of uninterrupted minutes
the treatment takes. Any serious interruption aborts the first aid
process, but it can be repeated.

Deadly wounds can only be stabilized by first aid. See Deadly
Wounds and First Ald immediately below for more information.
Stabilization of a patient with a Deadly wound must be maintained
continually until professional help can be administered.

Deadly Wounds and First Ald

Special rules come into play when using first aid on a character
with a Deadly wound. Because the character is suffering terrible
wounds, first aid can only stabilize; it cannot heal. Even then, there
is the chance that the character will die while being treated.

A Biotech Test is necessary, just as for regular first aid. If the test

 

 

produces at least 1 success the character stabilizes and stops taking
an additional box of damage every 10 minutes, as indicated in
Exceeding the Condition Monitor, p. | 1 1. Should the test fail, make
a natural Body Test for the wounded character against a Target
Number 10. If the test succeeds, the character's body stabilizes itself.
If both tests fail, the character will die once his or her Body Rating has
been exceeded. Again, see Exceeding the Condition Monitor.

Professional help, once it reaches the character, allows another
Biotech Test and character Body Test. In this case, professional help
is defined as a source of medical attention better equipped (such as
a hospital or clinic) or with a better Biotech Skill Rating (such as a Doc
Wagon™ paramedic) than that offered by the character who initially
administered the first aid.

Trauma Patches

A last-ditch alternative is available to stabilize characters in
danger ofimminent death. The trauma patch is an adhesive patch that
is placed against the patient's skin directly over the heart. The patch
administers measured, controlled doses of high-powered medicines
designed to stabilize an injured body. When a trauma patch is
applied, the character is allowed an additional natural Body Test to
stabilize. The Target Number for this test is 4, plus the rating of any
dermal armor or blood filters present (both restrict the flow of
medicine). Success leaves the character stable, and stops the accu-
mulation of additional damage boxes.

The trauma patch is used only as a last resort, because it could
have lasting ill-effects on the patient. See the section Deadly Wounds
and Permanent Damage, p. | | 4.

MAGICIANS AND DAMAGE

Magicians have it rough when they get hurt. Doctors and medics
have a harder time treating them because they cannot use their high-
tech gear and high-powered medicines on the patient without risking
damage to the character's Magic Rating. A magician can be treated
without the +2 modifier (see First Aid Table), but then a test has to be
made for Magic loss.

When a magician suffers a Deadly wound, or is treated without
the +2 modifier, there is a risk of a loss of Magic. Roll 2D6. If the result
is less than or equal to the magician’s current Magic Rating, | point
is lost permanently. If the magician is being treated for a Deadly
wound and the +2 modifier is not observed, check twice for Magic
loss.

If a magician requires a replacement limb or organ, it must be
cloned from the original tissue. Any other DNA pattern,even that of
another magician, will reduce the character's Power-handling capa-
bility and automatically reduce the character's Magic Rating by 1. This
can be temporary, in that a non-cyber substitute can be replaced later
with a limb or organ cloned from the magician’s tissue. This restores
the lost points of Magic Rating, but organ implants do Deadly surgical
damage, and consequently pose the risk of even greater Magic loss.

Magical Healing
The treat spell must be applied within one hour of the injury to

be of any effect. The heal spell can be administered at any time.
Successful use of either spell precludes the use of additional
healing or treating spells, or of first aid.
Treat and heal spells will reduce Physical overflow damage.

 

SHADOWRUN 115
 

 

Magic is not tuxedos, white rabbits, and fake flowers
anymore. It is power.
—Arthur Garrett, Chairman, Department of Occult
Studies, UCLA

here are few who would have the temerity to argue that any single event in the
known history of Earth is more significant than the return of magic. The world woke
up one morning and suddenly all the rules were different. The boundaries of
existence had changed and life had to be relearned. The world had Awakened.

In Shadowrun, characters can choose to walk one of three magical paths: that
of shamanism, of the hermetic tradition, or the path of physical discipline.
Whichever path the character chooses, it is for life. There is no going back.

A character who chooses the shamanic tradition becomes a shaman. Shamans
receive their power through linking their own inner world of emotion, will, and faith
with the external world of nature. This link with nature is personified through a
totem, an animal figure that exemplifies the shaman’s beliefs and way of life.

A character who chooses the hermetic tradition becomes a mage. A mage sees
the universe as a pattern of abstract forces and energies that can be controlled
through complex symbols and formulae of power. Where shamanism is intuitive
and improvisational, hermetic magic is more intellectual in its approach, relying on
observation, theory, practices, and precise execution. Mages are scholars and often
have elaborate libraries and equipment to assist their research and practice.

A character who walks the path of physical discipline becomes a physical adept.
A physical adept is concerned with mastery and perfection of the physical body in
order to achieve a state of inner harmony. A physical adept can do little that does
not directly involve the body, but that is usually enough.

In Shadowrun, any character with a Magic Rating is generically considered to be a
magician. The title of magician signifies magical ability on some level, regardless of
whether it be hermetic or shamanic. Often, the rules simply refer to magicians,
encompassing both forms equally. When the rules are referring exclusively to the

 

 

116 SHADOWRUN
 

SHADOWRUN 117
MAGI

hermetic tradition, however, the term mageis used. If the rules speak
only of the shamanic tradition, the term shaman is used. Rules for
physical adepts are almost unique and overlap little with the rules for
hermetic or shamanic magicians.

The path of magic that the character chooses affects how easily
he can learn spells and what kinds of spirits he can summon. It may
also impose requirements on how the character acts. Indeed, the
choice colors the character's whole outlook on life, his relationships
with other characters, and his motives for studying magic.

Magicians, regardless of tradition or form, come in two basic
types. There is the full-blooded magician, who can tap into the full
range of abilities of the chosen tradition, and the adept, who can
only practice certain types and forms of magic within strict limita-
tions. There are two ways to be considered a full-blooded magician:
the character must either have been human during Character
Generation, at which time his or her Priority A choice was allocated
to Magic, or else the character would have had to be a metahuman
whose Priority B choice was allocated to Magic.

To be an adept a character must have been either human and
had his Priority B choice allocated to Magic, or else been metahuman
and had his Priority C choice allocated to Magic. See Adepts, pp.
124-26, and Creating A Character, pp. 40—48, for more informa-
tion.

118 SHADOWRUN

THE SHAMANIC TRADITION

A shaman’s magic comes from the world of nature and the
power of emotions. In days past, some “civilized” scholars dispar-
aged shamanism, calling it “primitive” nature worship. When the
Awakening came, however, these “backward” primitives knew
how to use their new power to pay back the governments and
corporations that had oppressed their people for so long. Indeed,
shamanism had developed even among some city-dwellers during
the boom in occultism at the close of the 20th century. When the
magic came back, these “urban shamans” found that the old ways
worked well in cities, too.

To a shaman, the universe is alive. Animals, plants, stones,
Mother Earth herself, are all potential allies who can be contacted
magically. Before the Awakening, a shaman could only do this by
use of hallucinogens, hours of chanting and dancing to the hypnotic
beat of drums, or even self-inflicted torture. Though the shamans of
the 2050-era still use chants and dance, usually only a few words
or motions are all it takes to make the magic happen.

Shamans are in tune with the ways of nature and life. They are
concerned with the maintenance and preservation of their environ-
ment, be it the wilds of the Pacific Northwest, the expanse of the
Sahara, the majesty of the Amazon rain forests, or the wonderfully



complex ecosystem that is a modern city. All is nature, whether it
be rocks, streams, trees, and animals, or concrete, steel, neon, and
humanity.

TOTEMS

To be a shaman, one must have a totem. To the shaman, the
totem is an ideal to be emulated. Coyote, for example, has his ways,
as does Bear. Both are animal images representing an outlook and
a way of life. The shaman lives by these ideals, and the totem
provides him with a pattern for his life. The totem represents the
shaman’s perfect self. While in the imperfect form of his mortal
flesh, the shaman must do all that he can to live the way of the
totem.

An example of how strong are the ties between shaman and
totem is the time-honored tradition of the shamanic mask. Before
the Awakening, shamans wore masks that evoked their totem.
Made from primitive materials, these masks were crude or sophis-
ticated, simple or elaborate, depending on the shaman’s culture.
The shamanic mask was an item of great power. When wearing the
mask, the shaman became the totem incarnate. The dividing line
between crude flesh and perfect form was bridged, and the shaman
and totem were one.

Physical masks are no longer necessary. When a shaman
performs magic, the physical traits associated with the totem
become more apparent in him. The more powerful the magic, the
more noticeable these animal traits become. A complete shape-
change does not occur, but the effect can be striking nonetheless.

If, for example, an Eagle shaman were to perform a minor spell,
one not particularly relevant to the Eagle totem, the shaman’s
features might merely take on a sharper cast, or her chant come to
resemble the shrill cry of a mighty bird. When casting a more
demanding spell, the same shaman’s crooked fingers would be-
come like the talons of an eagle and his or her eyes like the piercing
eyes of a hunting bird. When calling on a powerful spell, the
shaman’s own features can completely dissolve within the image
of a mighty eagle’s head.

Even without the shamanic mask, the life, dress, and actions of
the shaman evoke the totem. Unlike a hermetic mage, a shaman
cannot even temporarily cast aside the accouterments of the
chosen way without risking the totem’s anger. The totem is the way
of life. Life is the way of the totem.

Choosing a Totem

Technically, it is the totem that does the choosing. Sometime
early in life, though occasionally later, the would-be shaman feels the
call of the totem. Often it will be an event or incident that symbolizes
this call and begins the relationship of the shaman and the totem.
Though it may take some time for the individual to find the path, the
totem is always there waiting for the shaman to walk it.

In Shadowrun, players are allowed to choose their characters’
totems at the time of character creation. This choice is always
permanent. Remember, it is the totem that chooses, and though it
may not seem so, the totem always chooses right.

The totem must be one of the wilderness or urban totems.
Wilderness totems are animals that live in the wild, such as Eagle,
Wolf, Bear, and so on. Urban totems are animals that have found

 

some niche in the urban ecology: Rat, Raccoon, Dog, and others.

There are hundreds of possible totem animals, but space here
to describe only a few. Players who wish to create an alternate
totem can work with their gamemaster to define its characteristics,
advantages, and disadvantages.

The choice of totem places some restrictions on the shaman’s
use of magic and behavior. It also bestows various advantages and
disadvantages. A shaman has extra dice in his Magic Pool when
casting spells that fall within the power of the totem. Then again,
some totems cost the shaman dice from the Magic Pool when he
is casting spells outside the totem’s power. These dice advantages
or disadvantages are called totem modifiers. Shamans also get
totem modifiers for using Conjuring Skill to summon or banish
certain kinds of nature spirits.

It is best to view the totem modifiers as bonus or penalty dice
that apply in certain situations. For example, Flys Like Wind, a Raven
shaman, receives 2 extra dice for manipulation spells, but loses 1
die for combat spells. When it comes time to cast one of those
spells, the shaman has 2 additional dice in the Magic Pool for a
manipulation spell, or 1 less if it is a combat spell, at the moment
the spell is cast. These dice exist, or are removed, only at the exact
moment the spell is cast. If the Magic Pool would normally be used
up, but the totem modifier adds 2 dice, then there are 2 extra dice
available for casting the appropriate spell at that moment. If there
are dice in the pool, but the totem modifier reduces the pool to 0,
then no extra dice are available for casting that specific, but ill-
favored, spell.

The player should choose a totem that is easy to roleplay. A
Bear shaman, for example, would be deliberate, ponderous, and
with a clumsy shamble that looks slow until he has to move fast. A
Rat shaman might be unwashed and fond of dark corners, always
keeping an eye out for an emergency exit. When she has to fight,
Rat will fight like a cornered. . .well, rat.

Players should also note that a totem is not just a “bear” or even
“the bear.” The totem is Bear, the archetype for all bears in the
world. A totem is not just an animal, but the essence, or true spirit,
of that animal. Gender-specific pronouns are sometimes used when
describing a totem, but these are intended only to bring a certain
tone to the descriptions and do not indicate any gender restriction
for shamans of that totem.

 

 

SHADOWRUN 119
Bear

Characteristics: Bear is powerful in body, but
ponderous unless he has to move fast. He
seems clumsy and unaware of his surround-
ings, but he is in harmony with the world and
what goes on around him. He is slow in
speech but mighty in battle. Bear is a powerful
healing totem found in shamanic cultures
wherever bears are known, be it North America,
central and northerm Europe, or Asia.
Bear is a healer. Unless a Bear shaman has
a good reason to refuse healing to someone
who needs it, he cannot do so.
Favored Environment: Forest
Advantages: +2 dice for all health spells; +2
dice for conjuring forest spirits.
Disadvantages: A Bear shaman can go ber-
serk when wounded. Whenever a Bear sha-
man is wounded, his player makes a Will-
power Test with an injury-modified Target
Number of 3. The Bear shaman will go berserk
for three turns, minus one tum for every
success. If the player rolls 3 or more successes,
the berserk rage is controlled. A berserk sha-
man will attack the closest living thing, using
his most powerful weapons (either magical or
physical). When the time is up or if the shaman
kills or incapacitates an enemy, the berserk
fury dissipates.

Cat

Characteristics: Cat is stealthy, vain, cunning,
and sometimes cruel. Cat loves to ferret out
secrets, but dislikes sharing them with others,
for she is Cat-Who-Walks-Alone. Cat is an
urban totem, at home with mankind, either in
their company or as a lonely hunter in city
streets and alleyways. Cat shamans are soli-
tary types, committed to no one but them-
selves.

Favored Environment: Urban

Advantages: +2 dice for illusion spells; +2
dice for conjuring city spirits.
Disadvantages: Cat will toy with an opponent
in battle, even when the situation is desperate.
She will threaten, sneer, and hiss, displaying
her dominance. She will also use showy magic,
flashy physical combat, or other irrelevancies
in the process of the kill. An unwounded Cat
shaman must make a Willpower Test with a
Target Number 6 when she wants to cast a
combat spell. If the test fails, she casts the least
damaging of the spells she knows. If the
shaman is wounded, all this playing around
stops. Cat is so fastidiously clean that she

 

suffers a +1 target modifier to all her tests
whenever dirty or unkempt.

Coyote

Characteristics: Coyote is the Great Trickster,
unpredictably bold one moment, cowardly
the next. He can be a friend or a cruel joker
who leads one into danger. Coyote is also the
great magician. A Coyote shaman is too inde-
pendent to be bound by anything except his
word. Like Grandfather Coyote of the legends,
he is intensely curious. He is also typically
greedy and fond of taking risks just for fun.
Favored Environment: Anywhere on land
Advantages/Disadvantages: None. A Coy-
ote shaman would never permit himself to be
limited by such concepts. He is beyond rules
and lives by his own wits.

Dog

Characteristics: Dog is loyal to friends and
family. He fights furiously to defend his home
and holdings, but is not generally aggressive
outside his own territory. Dog loves people,
and will defend them pitilessly from danger-
ous spirits or evil magic. Once a Dog shaman
gives his loyalty or love, he will remain loyal
even if the person he loves is unworthy. A Dog
shaman will try to protect humanity from evil
magicians at any cost.

Favored Environment: Urban

Advantages: +2 dice for detection spells; +2
dice for conjuring field and hearth spirits.
Disadvantages: Dog is single-minded, to the
point of stubbomness. Any time a Dog sha-
man changes his plans or tactics, his player
must make a Willpower Test with a Target
Number 4. The test itself requires one Com-
plex Action as Dog struggles to change his
mind.

Eagle

Characteristics: Eagle is the highest-flying
bird in the sky, and so comes closest to
heaven. He faces the rising sun at dawn and is
lord of the highest peaks. Eagle is proud,
solitary, and sees everything that happens on
the Earth over which he flies.

Favored Environment: Mountains
Advantages: +2 dice for detection spells; +2
dice for conjuring wind spirits.
Disadvantages: An Eagle shaman will not
tolerate evil or ignoble actions. He is a fierce
defender of the land and the purity of nature,

 

120 SHADOWRUN
 

with a strong distrust of technology and its
tools. Polluters and others who would dam-
age the land for profit are Eagle’s enemies, and
he will brave any danger to defeat them.

Double all Essence losses caused by add-
ing cyberware, because of the psychological
impact this has on the Eagle shaman.

Gator

Characteristics: Gator is a greater fighter and
a big eater. He is swift to act when action is
called for, but lethargic, even torpid, the rest of
the time. Gator is often ill-tempered, espe-
cially when prodded to action. But once he
grips, he holds, and will not tum away from a
path he has chosen.

Favored Environment: Swamps or rivers in
the wilderness. Gator is also an urban totem
because myth, if not reality, has placed him in
the sewers of the great cities. In magic, myth
is as good as reality and so Gator thrives
among urban shamans.

Advantages: +2 dice for combat and detec-
tion spells; +2 dice for conjuring spirits of the
swamp, lake, or river (if a wilderness totem
chosen), or city spirits (if an urban totem
chosen).

Disadvantages: Gator is lazy and greedy. As
an eater, he prefers to glut himself with food
and then laze around. As a shadowrunner, he
prefers a job with a big payoff that will let him
take it easy until all the money is gone. It can
take some hefty argument to make Gator
exert himself. His greed makes him loathe to
share material goods, and he will almost never
make loans or pick up a check. Once on a job,
he goes for the direct solution and is impatient
of subtlety. To make a Gator shaman break off
a fight, a chase, or other direct action takes a
Willpower Test with a Target Number 6. He
also subtracts | die for illusion spells.

Lion

Characteristics: Lion is the brave and power-
ful warrior. His method is direct and pointed,
for he is not a creature of subtlety. Lion prefers
to work from surprise or ambush, allowing
others to perform tasks for him while he holds
his strength in reserve. He will take the offen-
sive when necessary. Any threat to his kin or
family is a threat to him.

Favored Environment: Prairie

Advantages: +2 dice for combat spells; +2
dice for conjuring prairie spirits.
Disadvantages: —1 die for health spells. Lion is


 

vain and demands the most from himself,
especially when it comes to his physical con-
dition and appearance. He must live well, and
demands respect and loyalty from those around
him.



Characteristics: Owl is a wise and silent
watcher. She rarely speaks, but she sees much.
Owl rules the night skies, and so what she
hunts, she finds. Ow! is friendly to her com-
panions, but terrible to her enemies. By day,
she is practically helpless.

Favored Environment: Any urban or wilder-
ness location, but spell-learning is conducted
by night

Advantages: +2 dice for any sorcery or conjur-
ing by night.

Disadvantages: +2 to all target numbers (even
non-magical ones) when in direct sunlight.
Even when Ow is sheltered from the sun, add
+2 to all target numbers for magic during the
daytime.

Raccoon

Characteristics: Raccoon is a clever bandit
who can break open any trap to remove the
bait. He can also escape any danger, for his
paws are like cunning hands. Raccoon fights
when he must, but prefers strategy and trick-
ery.

Favored Environment: Anywhere but the
desert

Advantages: +2 dice for manipulation spells;
+2 dice for conjuring city spirits.
Disadvantages: A Raccoon shaman is a loner.
Like Coyote, his intense curiosity makes him
ignore danger in any quest for information.
Raccoon can be greedy (this is a thief totem),
but Raccoon shamans will steal only the very
best, for petty thefts and violent robberies are
beneath their dignity. Raccoon shamans suffer
a-1 die modifier for combat spells.

Rat

Characteristics: Rat is a stealthy thief who is
too selfish to share anything, even with his
companions. He is also a reluctant warrior
who would rather run than fight. Where man-
kind goes, there also goes Rat, for who else’s
bounty can sustain him?

Favored Environment: Urban

Advantages: +2 dice for detection and illusion
spells; +2 dice for conjuring all Spirits of Man.

 

SHADOWRUN 121
Disadvantages: Rat shamans are usually dirty
and unkempt. Rat is a coward, but when he
must fight, he fights to kill. Rat dislikes working
out in the open, for a muttered spell from the
shadows (or a silenced pistol from a doorway)
is more his style. Subtract 1 die for combat

spells.

Raven

Characteristics: Like Coyote, Raven is a trick-
ster, clever and devious. Raven is also the
transformer, responsible for changes. He is a
living contradiction, greedy and generous by
tums.

Favored Environment: Anywhere under the
open sky

Advantages: +2 dice for manipulation J

spells; +2 dice for conjuring wind
spirits.

Disadvantages: Raven shamans are ei-
ther overweight or else rail-thin. In either case,
they are gluttonous and always hungry, find-
ing it next to impossible to refuse an offer of
food. Raven dislikes fighting, preferring to let
others handle that part of life. Subtract 1 die for
combat spells. Whenever not under the open
sky, Raven shamans suffer a +1 to all target
numbers.

Shark

Characteristics: Shark is a cold, relentless
hunter, who is savage in combat. With no
fixed home, he knows all the secrets of the sea.
Shark can be a totem of shamans from any sea-
or shore-dwelling culture, including the Ha-
waiian kahunas, the Japanese miko, Haitian
houngans, Eskimo angekok, as well as the
Native Americans of the Pacific Northwest and
any surviving shamans among the few Austra-
lian aborigines still living in Dreamtime.
Favored Environment: On or by the sea
Advantages: +2 dice for combat and detec-
tion spells; +2 dice for conjuring sea spirits.
Disadvantages: A Shark shaman may go
berserk when wounded in combat or if he
kills an opponent. Whenever one of these
conditions occurs, the shaman’s player must
make a Willpower Test, with an injury-modi-
fied Target Number 4. He will go berserk for
3 turns, minus 1 turn for every success. If he
scores 3 or more successes, he won't go off.
A berserk shaman will attack the closest
living thing, using his most powerful weap-
ons (either magical or physical). A berserk
Shark shaman fights to kill. He may, alterna-


 

tively, continue to hurl magic or use weap-
ons against the inert body of his last victim,
savagely blasting or hacking it.

Even if he is not berserk, Shark believes
that the only good enemy is a dead enemy. If
challenged, he does not waste time with
threats or bragging, but strikes, usually to kill.

Snake

Characteristics: Snake is a wise healer who
dwells in many places and knows many se-
crets. Snake is a good councilor, but exacts a

cept mountains

Advantages: +2 dice for healing,
illusion, and detection spells. As a
wildemess totem, +2 dice for conjur-
ing any one Spirit of the Land (shaman's
choice). Asan urban totem, +2 dice for conjur-
ing any one Spirit of Man (shaman’s choice).
Disadvantages: Snake will not fight unless she
must defend herself or else hunt to eat. Snake
shamans have a-—1! die modifier for any spells
cast during combat. Snake shamans are ob-
sessed with learning secrets and will take

enormous risks to do so.

Wolf

Characteristics: Wolf is the hunter and war-
rior. He is brother to all his pack, and fiercely
loyal to his mate and cubs. As the ancient
saying goes, Wolf wins every fight but the last,
and in that one, he dies.

Favored Environment: Forest, prairie, or moun-
tain

Advantages: +2 dice for detection and com-
bat spells; +2 dice for conjuring forest or prairie
spirits (shaman’s choice).

Disadvantages: A Wolf shaman is loyal to his
friends and family until death. Nothing can
make him betray those bonds. Nor will he ever
show cowardice. When a Wolf shaman ex-
tends his protection to another or otherwise
accepts a responsibility, nothing can make
him betray that bond. Wolf can, however, go
berserk as a Bear does.

 

122 SHADOWRUN


Insect Totems

Insects do not appear in this list of totems because they are rare
in the shamanic tradition. When they do show up, however, it is
often as a dangerous or evil influence. Veteran Shadowrun players
already know that dark truth.

ROLEPLAYING THE SHAMAN

When roleplaying a shaman, the player must take care to
behave appropriately for his or her totem. Otherwise, the shaman
could lose his link to the totem, possibly even losing all access to
its magic. A player who is not certain he wishes to limit his character
with a lot of requirements should try playing a Coyote shaman, who
has more freedom of action.

This does not mean that a Cat shaman never has close friends,
or that a Shark shaman must kill anyone who looks at him sideways,
but Cat will not reveal her darkest secrets, or even her telecom code,
to every chummer she meets. Neither is Shark going to walk away
from a fight just because someone might get hurt.

Shamans are human and a totem is not a religion, though it
gets close. There are no commandments the shaman must follow.
The totem is important because it is what makes the shaman a
magician. Gamemasters should be lenient about occasional minor
goofs.

Ifashaman consistently behaves out of character for the totem,
then the gamemaster should punish the character. At first, punish-
ment will be the loss of any advantages usually gained from the
totem. For really persistent behavior, the gamemaster can reduce
the shaman’s Magic Attribute by 1 point.

A shaman can retrieve lost powers once he begins to behave
properly again. A special shadowrun that is particularly appropriate
to the totem might be required as a final purification, however.

THE MEDICINE LODGE

The medicine lodge is the sacred place of the shaman. It is a
little, isolated world where powerful magics can be worked and it
is a place for communication with the spirits. Here is where the
shaman keeps the special items that are actually and symbolically
powerful for him. It is the place where the world of the shaman
bridges the worlds of the magical and the mundane.

The medicine lodge must be in an environment suitable to the
shaman’s totem. A Bear lodge should be in the woods, for example,
while a Rat lodge could be anywhere in a city. The lodge can be
indoors, in a cave, or even an open campsite, as long as it has
definite, marked-off boundaries. The lodge should be at least a 3-
meter by 3-meter area; bigger if a group of shamans intend to share
it.

A medicine lodge has a rating. The lodge’s rating is deter-
mined by the shaman’s ability and available time and money. To
learn a spell, a shaman must have a medicine lodge available and
it must have a rating at least equal to the Force of the spell he wishes
to learn. See Learning A New Spell, p. 132.

Most tribes have permanent lodges, be it a hogan, teepee,
kiva, cave, or pueblo designated as a lodge. Because many sha-
mans stay on the move, they must often lug their lodges around
with them. The actual materials would be animal pelts, bones,
drums, painted hides, sands for sand paintings, minerals and
crystals, and so on. All these are reusable, and need not be replaced

 

after purchase unless the lodge is lost or destroyed. Talismongers
sell the magical gear that goes into a medicine lodge. Generally
speaking, a medicine lodge’s materials cost 500¥ per rating point
and weigh about 2 kilograms per rating point.

It is best to set up a permanent medicine lodge. If that is not
possible, the shaman should haul the materials to an appropriate
site and set one up. It takes one day per rating point of the lodge
to do this because the shaman must charge the new lodge with
magical energy to link it to the Earth. It is for this reason that a
permanent lodge is more convenient.

Lodges are erected to a specific totem and can be shared
among shamans of that totem.

NATURE SPIRITS

One of the most powerful abilities of the shaman is the ability
to conjure nature spirits. These are strong spirits associated with a
specific place or domain, and that personify the forces or nature of
that place. They can only be summoned by shamans. See Summon-
ing Nature Spirits, p. 139, for more information.

SHAMAN ABILITIES

Shamans can use magical Foci (pp. 137-39), cast Spells (pp.
129-32), and access Astral Space (pp. 145-50) without restriction.
They may also use Conjuring (pp. 139-44), with some restriction on
the types of spirits they may summon.

THE HERMETIC TRADITION

Though some magicians may like the country life, most are
urban types. Their magic is based on a complicated set of theories
that describe the way astral space contracts and intersects with the
physical world. As one might expect, there are as many versions of
these theories as there are mages.

Hermetic magic attracted much interest before the Awaken-
ing. Surprisingly large numbers from all walks of life were studying
the disciplines of the mage at the time of the Awakening, reacting
variously with surprise, relief, or dismay to discover that the magic
suddenly worked. Because many of these students were corporate
employees studying magic in their spare time, the corporations
picked up on hermetic magic very early on. To this day the
corporations employ wage mages in all capacities, but there are
very few shamans. (Try telling Coyote he can only have an hour for
lunch.)

Mages see the universe as a complex of abstract forces ranging
from the simple and complex laws of natural physics to the equally
simple and complex laws of metaphysics. How these forces work
with and against each other, and how these forces can be con-
trolled, is the territory of the hermetic mage.

Before the Awakening the process by which a mage opened
up to those forces, and thereby controlled them, required lengthy,
complex ceremonies. Now, a mage can work magic with a few
gestures and key syllables of invocation. The elaborate rituals and
equipment are necessary only for special situations.

The desire of the mage is to know, firsthand, the inner reality
of the universe. The mage may practice magic for its own sake, or
for the nuyen it earns, or for power, but a mage is a scholar whose
art demands constant study.

 

SHADOWRUN 123
Wee

HERMETIC LIBRARIES

Mages spend a lot of time doing research. They need extensive
reference libraries for many activities: learning new spells, design-
ing magical rites, summoning spirits, and so on.

Hermetic libraries are specific to a given skill. That is, a mage
needs separate libraries for sorcery, conjuring, and magical theory.
Libraries, unlike the skills themselves, do not have Concentrations
or Specializations. They do, however, have ratings reflecting their
completeness and level of information.

A mage needs a sorcery library in order to increase his Sorcery
Skill. Without it, skill advancement is very difficult (see Skills, p.
190). A conjuring library is vital in the summoning of elementals
(see Conjuring, p. 139). A magical theory library is required to learn
new spells (see Learning A New Spell, p. 132).

In the 2050s, print is almost dead, but many mages are old-
fashioned enough to enjoy the feel of a physical book. Libraries can
consist of printed books and papers (hardcopy). Though bulky,
books are accessible almost anywhere and not subject to power
failures. Alternatively, a library, like any other information, can be
stored on a mini-CD (compact disk) or optical chip. The space
required to store them is small, but the mage needs a data reader
or computer to access them. Datasoft libraries (see Skillsofts, p.
248) are available, but they are expensive and not easily shared with
other mages. A library can mix all three types of storage.

Mages can share libraries. Access to the thaumaturgical sec-
tion of any big university library or corporate reference department
lets any number of mages pursue projects at the same time. These
large research facilities have nearly any rating a mage may require,
within reason. Libraries above Rating 4 are difficult to find and
acquire access to. Libraries often charge legitimate, registered
users a fee on an hourly basis equal to the rating of the library in
nuyen. Illegal users may find the owners taking exception to their
using the data.

Libraries can hold an amount of data equal to their rating,
squared, times 100 Mp (megapulses). A Rating 6 sorcery, conjur-
ing, or magical theory library would, for example, require 3,600
Mp, or 3.6 Gp (gigapulses).

Hardcopy libraries require roughly one-half cubic meter of
space per 100 Mp of data. They also cost their rating points,
squared, times 2,000¥. So again, that Rating 6 library would cost
72,000.

Electronic data merely requires sufficient CD or chip storage
space. A magical library on CD holds 100 Mp per disk and costs its
rating points, squared, times 1,000¥. Data-storage optical chips
hold up to 1 Gp per chip and cost its rating points, squared, times
1,200¥. On disk the Rating 6 library would take up 36 disks and cost
36,000¥. On chip it would take up four chips and cost 43,200¥.

Library ratings are not cumulative. Combining a Rating 2 library
with a Rating 3 library does not result in a Rating 5 library. It is still
only a Rating 2 or 3 library.

THE HERMETIC CIRCLE

Sometimes a mage needs to set up a hermetic circle. It can be
in any convenient, private place, indoors or out, but should be
secluded so that operations will not attract gawkers.

Hermetic circles are prepared for a specific spell or conjuring. For
example, if the mage wants to use ritual sorcery to cast a stink spell

 

on someone, he must prepare a circle for that specific spell. He could
not use the same circle to cast a mask spell the next day, but must
draw anew one. The same goes for summoning elementals. A circle
created to summon a fire elemental is useless for summoning water
elementals (not to mention downright insulting to the elemental).

Once the circle has been drawn, it can be re-used for the same
mystical operation. It is quite common for a mage to draw a circle
for summoning a fire elemental, leaving it in place for another day
and another summoning.

Hermetic circles have ratings. There is no limit to the rating of
a circle a mage can create, as long as he has sufficient time and
enough room. Actually drawing and empowering the circle takes
anumber of hours of uninterrupted work equal to the circle’s rating.
The circle is a base 3 meters in diameter, plus an additional number
of meters equal to the rating. That means a Rating 6 Hermetic Circle
would be 9 meters in diameter.

A circle’s rating limits the maximum rating of an operation
conducted within it. For example, summoning an elemental with a
Force 6 requires a hermetic circle with at least a Rating 6.

A hermetic circle is linked to the mage who inscribed it. This
link can be traced through astral space, though with some difficulty
(see Astral Tracking, p. 149). Also, like spell constructs, the style
of a circle’s creator is identifiable within its construction. See Astral
Perception, p. 145, for more information.

ADEPTS

A less powerful form of magician, an adept is focused and
restricted in his abilities. Like full magicians, adepts have a Magic
Rating and lose points from that Attribute as they suffer Essence loss
or Deadly wounds. There are three types of adepts; magical adepts,
shamanic adepts, and physical adepts.

MAGICAL ADEPTS

A magical adept can use only one magical skill. An adept who
uses only Sorcery Skill is often referred to as a sorcerer, while one
who uses only Conjuring Skill is referred to as a conjurer. Sorcerers
are the most common kind of magical adept. Whatever skill the
adept picks, he will follow the normal rules for that skill.

Like other magicians, magical adepts must choose between
the shamanic and hermetic traditions. They follow the rules in spell
learning and so on for that tradition. Shamans get their totem
benefits and penalties, if applicable to the skill. Adepts can use foci
like any other magician, if it is applicable to their skill.

The principle difference (and it is an important one) between a
magical adept and a full magician is that the adept has no access to
astral space. A magical adept cannot use astral perception or
projection at all.

SHAMANIC ADEPTS

A different form of adept is the shamanic adept, who, as the
name implies, must be a shaman. This adept can only cast spells or
conjure spirits for which a totem would offer modifiers. For ex-
ample, a shamanic adept of the Bear totem can only cast health
spells and can only conjure forest spirits.

Note that shamanic adepts do not receive totem modifiers for
these activities. They are subject to all the usual requirements for

 

124 SHADOWRUN
ALC

their totem. For example, it is not possible to be a shamanic adept
for the Coyote totem, because it does not receive any totem
modifiers, nor is it possible with a totem such as Owl, whose spells
receive a modifier based on time or place, but not purpose.

Shamanic adepts have full use of their Sorcery and Conjuring
Skills for defensive purposes, and are capable of astral perception
and projection.

PHYSICAL ADEPTS

A physical adept is dedicated to improving the body and its
abilities. Powers attributed to legendary martial artists, warriors of
shamanic peoples, berserkers, and the like, suggest that such
adepts may have existed before the Awakening. The first publicly
documented physical adept in modern times was Francis Daniels,
an engineering Ph.D. and fourth danki-akido black belt. Much of the
current understanding of the abilities of the physical adept are due
to research Daniels conducted before his untimely death in the riots
attending the collapse of the U.S. government in the Washington
D.C. metroplex in 2030.

When a physical adept character is created, his Magic Rating
Points are used to “buy” various improvements to the physical
Attributes, Reaction, senses, and skills. The adept can also “buy”
various unique powers, similar to the effects of certain spells. These
become permanent abilities for the adept.

It should be noted that the character's Magic Rating Points are
not actually used up to “buy” the adept abilities. Rather, those
points are used as a gauge of how many abilities the adept can
acquire (a number of points up to his or her Magic Rating.)

The only magical focus of any use to a physical adept is a
weapon focus. Foci are described in full beginning on p. 137. Note
also that a physical adept cannot use astral perception, unless it is
purchased as an ability. A physical adept cannot astrally project.

Powers of the Physical Adept

Astral Perception
Cost: 2

The adept has the ability to see into the astral plane via Astral
Perception (p. 145), but cannot use astral projection. This enables
the adept to use the Sorcery Skill in Astral Combat (see p. 147), but
the character cannot cast spells nor does he have a Magic Pool.

Combat Sense
Cost: See below

The adept with combat sense power has an almost sixth sense
about an area and any threats around him. Each level of this ability
purchased gives the adept a number of extra dice in the Combat
Pool, as well as the ability to spend Combat Pool dice to assist the
Reaction Test in surprise situations (p. 86).

COMBAT SENSE POWER
Level Combat Pool Dice Cost

 

 

 

 

Improved Ability
Cost: See below

The physical adept is able to purchase additional dice for use
with a specific general skill. Dice purchased for the general skill carry
over equally to any Concentrations or Specializations of the skill that
the character may know. In addition to the +2 target modifier
received for every circle passed on the Skill Web (p. 69), any
Improved Ability dice are reduced at a rate of one per circle crossed.
For example, passing three dots would add a +6 modifier, while
subtracting 3 Improved Ability dice.

There is an additional restriction on dice purchased for use with
Combat Skills: the adept cannot have more extra dice than the
character's current Combat Skill Rating. Thus, a character with
Firearms 4 cannot have more than 4 additional dice.

IMPROVED ABILITY COSTS
Area Cost
Athletic Skills .25/die
Stealth .25/die
Combat Skills

Armed Combat .5/die
Unarmed Combat .5/die
Throwing -5/die
Projectile Weapons .5/die
Firearms 1/die
Gunnery 1/die

 

Improved Physical Attributes
Cost: See below

With this ability, the physical adept can raise a Physical Attribute
(only Body, Strength, or Quickness), but not a Mental Attribute.

If the adept later wants to increase a Physical Attribute using
Karma in the normal manner (p. 190), the cost is based on the total
attribute rating, that is, including the magical improvements.

The actual cost of the ability depends on how much higher (or
lower) than the character’s Racial Maximum is the final attribute
rating.

IMPROVED ATTRIBUTE COSTS
Attribute Rating Cost
Less than or equal to
1/2 Racial Maximum
Up to Racial Maximum
Up to 1.5 x Racial Maximum

.5 per +1 rating
1 per +1 rating
1.5 per +1 rating

Improved Physical Senses
Cost: .25 per improvement

These improvements include low-light or thermographic vi-
sion, high- or low-frequency hearing, enhanced smell or taste, and
so on. Unless an improvement involves a radio or similar techno-
logical phenomena, anything that can be improved by cyberware
can be improved by this power. Unlike cyberware, there are no
package deals.

 

SHADOWRUN 125
 

Increased Reaction
Cost: See below

Increased Reaction gives the physical adept additional points
of Reaction, based on the degree of the ability purchased. Consult
the table below. The adept receives only the Reaction bonus, but no
additional Initiative dice.

INCREASED REACTION COST
Reaction Bonus Cost/Point
Less than or equal to
1/2 Racial Maximum -5 per +1
Up to Racial Maximum 1 per +1 rating
Up to 1.5 x Racial Maximum 2 per +1 rating

Increased Reflexes
Cost: See below

Increased Reflexes gives the adept additional Initiative dice,
based on the degree of ability purchased. Consult the table below.

INCREASED REFLEXES COST
Extra Initiative Dice Cost

 

Killing Hands
Cost: See below

Normal hand-to-hand damage does (Strength)M Stun dam-
age. The physical adept may use his magic to turn his Unarmed
Combat attacks into deadly Physical damage. When using Un-
armed Combat, an adept with Killing Hands may choose to do
either the normal Stun damage or the improved Physical damage,
as purchased. See the table below for the costs for each of the four
different levels of Killing Hands available. Technically, there is
nothing to stop a physical adept from acquiring more than one of
the levels, say, (Strength)L and (Strength)D.

The player must declare use of Killing Hands with the Unarmed
Combat attack. The attack itself is effective against creatures with
Immunity or magical defenses against normal weapons (see Powers
of the Awakened, p. 214). Their defensive bonuses do not count
against Killing Hands.

Note also that Killing Hands is a bare-handed strike and cannot
be augmented by either weaponry or magic, though they may use
other physical adept abilities like Improved Ability.

KILLING HANDS COST
Damage Level Cost
(Strength)L

(Strength)M
(Strength)S
(Strength)D

 

 

 

Pain Resistance
Cost: .5 per point

Pain Resistance allows the physical adept to ignore the effects
(injury and Initiative modifiers) of a number of boxes of damage
equal to the number of points of Pain Resistance power acquired.
Thus, a character with 3 points of Pain Resistance does not suffer any
of the modifiers when taking Light or Moderate wounds. Once the
character's damage passes the Moderate wound level (more than
3 boxes), all injury and Initiative modifiers will apply normally.
Points purchased work equally on both the Physical and Stun
Condition Monitors.

Note that even if the character has 10 points of Pain Resistance,
he will still go unconscious, and possibly die, once he reaches the
Deadly wound level. What happens is that the character will show
no signs of being injured until he simply drops.

Pain Resistance also allows the character to resist pain from
torture, magic, illness, and so on. Add the number of points of Pain
Resistance purchased to the target numbers for inflicting pain on the
adept (e.g., torture interrogation); subtract them from the target
number to resist pain (e.g., in a Body or Willpower Test against the
symptoms of a painful disease). Again, Pain Resistance does not
prevent or heal actual damage, but may prevent or reduce the
damage’s effect on the character's skills or Initiative.

Pain Resistance cannot be used to improve the outcome of any
form of Damage Resistance Test.

PHYSICAL ADEPTS AND MAGIC

A physical adept can lose Magic Rating Points just like any
other magician. Should that happen, the loss affects any improve-
ments the character has purchased. An adept must give up | full
point of improvement for every point of Magic lost.

Once a player has allocated Magic Rating Points to “buy” a
power, that power cannot be changed, but it can be upgraded by
spending more Magic points at a later time. For example, if a player
puts 2 Magic points into Killing Hands (Strength)S, he could later
raise the power to (Strength)D by “spending” 2 more points.

 

126 SHADOWRUN
SORCERY

Sorcery is the art of spellcasting. Through it, a magician can
command and shape the forces of astral space to a specific end.
Shamans and mages can both cast spells without restriction,
though the shaman must keep in mind totem modifiers.

Though both types of magician can cast spells that are, for all
intents and purposes, identical within the Shadowrun game sys-
tem, how they cast spells is entirely different.

Hermetic mages command the astral forces through very
specific, practiced, precise formulas. Most of the effort is mental;
the exercise of commanding the forces is a task of mental gymnas-
tics and willpower. Some physical activity accompanies the spell,
but it is minor compared to the work the mage’s mind is doing.
Perhaps some words must be spoken, a minor gesture be made, or
some symbolic material be used in some manner. Regardless, the
mage calls up the mental multidimensional image of the spell
formula, imposes it on the forces of reality at hand, then shapes,
channels, and directs them to the desired end. The casting of a
particular spell is an identical procedure each and every time, unless
some parameter of the spellcasting has changed.

Shamans, however, rarely cast magic the same way twice.
Their magic comes from intuition, improvisation, and an under-
standing of the moment. The forces of nature are called, not
commanded. The shaman considers the forces of nature to be allies,
not tools, allies to be praised for their assistance. The specifics of a
shaman’s spellcasting vary with the moment and the situation. The
calling of powers is very personal and must be tailored to the
situation. Each dance, each chant, each song is different because
each moment is different. Thus, each spellcasting is different. Like
the mage, the shaman uses his mind to call on the unseen forces of
magic, but his spellcasting has more external components in the
form of dances, gestures, chants, or songs. Most of this is voluntary,
however. When necessary, the shaman can call the forces of nature
with barely a whisper.

That said, it should also be pointed out that though the method
of spellcasting differs radically between mages and shamans, both
cast the same spells within the game system. As far as the
Shadowrun game is concerned, a mana blast spell is a mana blast,
regardless of whether a mage or shaman casts it. The roleplaying of
the spellcasting will differ, as explained above, but the procedure
and the game statistics behind the spell are the same.

TYPES OF SPELLS

Spells come in two types and five categories. The two types are
Physical and Mana, and the five categories are combat, detection,
health, illusion, and manipulation spells. Each category includes
many individual spells, which are listed and described in the Spell
Directory, beginning on p. 151.

Physical Spells

Physical spells affect physical things. The magical energies of
a physical spell are synchronized with the tangible aspects of a
target: its composition, mass, momentum, appearance, and so on.
Only physical spells can affect inanimate objects such as walls,
rocks, and the like. Physical spells can affect living things, but they
affect the physical nature and structure of the being.

If the target is a living being, he or she resists physical spells
with the Body Attribute. Objects made of certain materials are more
resistant to magical effects. See Casting Spells, p. 129, for more
information. Unless otherwise noted, physical spells do Physical
Damage.

Mana Spells

Mana spells affect the intangible elements of a target, such as
the spirit or emotions. They are the only spells that can affect purely
magical targets. Mana spells cannot affect inanimate objects on any
level.

Mana spells are resisted by the target’s Willpower Attribute.
Unless otherwise noted, mana spells do Physical Damage.

Combat Spells

Combat spells are quick, dirty, and violent. The energy of
combat spells is channeled into the target directly from astral space
through the target’s aura. The target is, effectively, attacked from
within. Combat spells ignore the effects of armor and non-magical,
external protections.

The target of a combat spell must, however, be within line-of-
sight of the casting magician. The magician must be able to see the
target, diiectly. The magician can ignore transparent obstructions
such as clear glass, but not smoked or one-way glass. If the
magician cannot see the target, he cannot affect the target, even if
he is absolutely certain that the target is there, just out of line-of-
sight. See Spell Targeting, p. 130, as well as the descriptions of
Combat Spells, p. 151, for more information.

Combat spells can be either physical or mana spells.

Detection Spells

Detection spells are used to enhance the senses or to analyze the
environment. They allow the magician, or the recipient of the spell,
to sense things in a manner normally beyond his or her ability, to see
or hear from a great distance, and so on. There are also spells that
allow the magician to detect the presence of other beings, magic, life,
and enemies. See p. 152 for the listing of detection spells.

Detection spells can be either physical or mana spells.

Health Spells

Health spells are concerned with the condition and perfor-
mance of the body. They can be used to treat or heal injuries, purge
poisons or toxins from a body, or affect Attribute Ratings. See p. 154
for the listing of health spells.

Health spells can be either physical or mana spells.

Illusion Spells

Illusion spells fool the senses. They can be used to deceive,
create things that do not really exist, make things invisible, stimu-
late the senses, or provide simple or complex entertainment. See
p. 155 for the listing of illusion spells.

Illusion spells, which affect the mind, are usually mana spells.

Manipulation Spells

Manipulation spells can transform, transmute, control, or
animate matter or energy. They are powerful, complex spells that
are difficult to control and master. Manipulation spells can control

 

SHADOWRUN 127
the emotions or actions of a person, move objects or items, shape,
create, or channel energy such as light or fire, or change a target's
form or appearance by changing its structure. See p. 156 for the
listing of manipulation spells.

Unlike combat spells, a manipulation spell used for a violent,
destructive purpose actually creates a tangible physical effect. A
blast of flame from a manipulation spell strikes the target from the
outside, which lets the target benefit from the protection of armor
and such. Combat spells strike from within, bypassing armor.
Manipulation spells, however, do not have the same line-of-sight
restrictions as combat spells. See Spell Targeting, p. 130, and the
listing of manipulation spells, p. 156.

Manipulation spells can be either physical or mana spells.

SPELL COMPONENTS

In addition to type and category, spells have several other
components that affect their operation. Force, Range, Drain Level,
Duration, and Exclusivity are explained in general terms here, and
then dealt with more fully as needed in the Casting Spells section,
p. 129.

Force

A spell’s Force sets how powerful it is. A Force 1 spell is a
minimum-power spell of that type. To be cast, a spell must have at
least a Force of 1.

Magicians learn spells at a specific Force. They voluntarily can
cast the spell at a lower, reduced Force, but can never cast the spell
at a higher Force than what they have learned. If the magician wants
to increase the learned Force of a spell, he must re-learn the spell.
See Learning A New Spell, p. 132.

The higher the Force of a spell, the greater its potential effect
and the harder it is for the target to resist. High-Force spells are also
more draining to the spellcaster. When choosing the Force at which
to cast a spell, the magician must strike a balance between the
spell’s effectiveness against the intended target and his own ability
to absorb the drain of casting the spell.

The Force of the spell is the base number of dice used to
determine the spell’s success. These dice may be augmented from
the Magic Pool (see p. 85), as the magician desires. See also
Casting Spells, pp. 129.

Range

All spells have a Range at which they can be cast. For most
spells, the range is listed as LOS, which stands for line-of-sight. This
means that if the magician can see the target, he can hit it with the
spell, regardless of range. See Spell Targeting for more information.

Other spells, specifically health spells, have a listing of Touch.
The caster of these spells must physically touch the intended target
in order for the spell to work. If the target does not wish to be
touched, the magician must also make a successful attack using the
Unarmed Combat Skill. See Melee Combat, p. 100.

Detection spells that deal with the senses have a limited range
of effect, but it is variable. At the time the spell is cast, the magician
makes a separate Force Test against a Target Number of 4, plus any
applicable injury modifiers. If the magician desires, he may aug-
ment the test with dice from the Magic Pool. These dice, however,
must be separate from any dice allocated for the actual Spell

Success Test. Multiply the number of successes from the Force Test
by the magician’s Magic Rating to get the maximum range in
meters at which the spell can operate.

Drain Level

A spell’s Drain Level reflects how casting the spell affects the
magician himself. Spells with a higher Drain Level are more
draining, more fatiguing, to the casting magician than those with
lower Drain Levels.

Drain Levels are rated like a weapon's Damage Level (M Stun,
S Stun, and so on). Drain can, in fact, be viewed as a kind of attack
by the energy of the spell being manipulated and channeled against
the caster of the spell. The more power or energy in the spell (the
higher the Force), the greater the potential that those same energies
will have a damaging effect on the caster.

Drain damage is usually Stun damage, except under certain
circumstances. If the Force of the spell exceeds the spellcasting
magician’s Magic Rating, then the Drain damage is Physical dam-
age. Because the magician has exceeded his body's ability to
channel energy, the potential damage shifts from fatigue (Stun
damage) to actual damage (Physical damage) such as muscle pulls,
burst blood vessels, and so on.

Drain damage is resisted like weapon damage. The magician rolls
dice equal to his Willpower against the Drain Level, which is based
on the Force of the spell cast. Successes reduce the Damage Level.
See Casting Spells, specifically the Drain Resistance Test, p. 132.

Spell Duration

These Durations are possible for spells in Shadowrun: Instant,
Sustained, and Permanent.

Instant Spells take a Complex Action to cast. They take effect
and vanish in the same action. Their effects are usually lasting, however.
Combat spells and some manipulation spells fall into this category.

Sustained Spells can be maintained over time. They remain in
effect as long as the magician maintains concentration on the spell,
thereby sustaining it. When he loses his concentration, or when he
voluntarily drops the spell, the spell’s effects disappear. Magicians
who are sustaining spells suffer a universal target modifier of +2 per
sustained spell. Because the magician must put so much concen-
tration into sustaining the spell, this target modifier affects all other
tests the magician must make while sustaining. A magician may
simultaneously sustain a maximum number of spells equal to his
Sorcery Skill. Magicians may maintain spells while astrally perceiv-
ing (p. 145), but not while astrally projecting (p. 146).

Permanent Spells must be sustained for some specified period
of time before their effects become permanent. Health spells are an
example. If the magician drops the spell before the required time
has elapsed, the spell’s effects do not become permanent, but
disappear instead.

Exclusivity

Aspell, when leamed, can be declared exclusive. This means that the
spell cannot be stacked with another spell or be cast while another spell,
or spells, are being separately sustained. An exclusive spell is the only
one that the magician can cast, or have under his control, at that time.
Exclusivity does, however, allow a spell to be cast at an effectively
higher Force. See Learning A New Spell, p. 132.

 

128 SHADOWRUN
 
All sales are final in the Grand Bazaar, Damascus. * By janet Aulisio

 
Renowned artist Adam Aloné attends a special showing of his work near the Louvre, Paris. * By Joel Biske

 
Publicity still from the cinéma vérité/absurdist drama Wunderkrieg, starring Spiny Vic and the Wonkers, German Satellite Television. * By Jeff Laubenstein

 
Serious shopping, the Renraku Arcology, Seattle. * By Janet Aulisio

Talking about a Revolution, Tenochtitlan, Aztlan. * By Jim Nelson

 
Dances With Bears, Yakutat Bay, Salish-Shidhe Region. ¢ By Jeff Laubenstein


SPELL STACKING

To cast a magic spell requires a Complex Action. Magicians
may, however, stack multiple spells into one long spell and then
cast them simultaneously with one Complex Action. The magician
does, however, suffer a +2 target modifier to all target numbers
involved in casting the spells and to resisting the Drain per stacked
spell. Thus, a magician attempting to cast a mana bolt spell and an
armor spell simultaneously would have a +2 target modifier to all
tests associated with casting of those two spells.

Additionally, Magic Pool dice must be allocated separately
between the various stacked spells. See Magic Pool, p. 85, for more
information.

Stacked spells are resolved in the order the casting magician
desires.

MULTIPLE TARGETS

A magician may cast a single spell against multiple targets. To
do so, however, he must split the Spell Force dice up among the
targets. If casting a Force 6 spell against three targets, for example,
the spellcaster could divide the dice up as 2 dice against each, or
4 against the first and 1 against each of the other two, or any other
combination desired.

The caster must then make three separate Drain Resistance
Tests against a base target number equal to the original, undivided,
Drain of the spell. Magic Pool dice must be allocated against each
of the targets individually and for each of the Drain Resistance Tests.

CASTING SPELLS

All spellcasting occurs within step C (Resolve Actions) of the
Combat Turn sequence (p. 78). However, an additional option is
open to a magician character during the previous step of Declare
Actions. It is at that point that the magician allocates his Magic Pool
dice for all the tests expected during this Action Phase. This is the
moment when the magician should allocate Magic Pool Dice to
assist in the spell’s Success Test, the caster’s Drain Resistance Test,
or for use as Spell Defense dice (p. 132).

The following summary describes the basic steps in spellcasting.
Each step is further explained in the subsequent sections. Remem-
ber, spellcasting itself occurs during the Resolve Actions step of the
Combat Turn.

  
  
 

 

A. Determine Spell
Determine the spell and its specifics. Check to see if the current
spell, or a currently sustained spell, is exclusive. Note whether the
spell is physical or mana, what its category is, and its Duration.

B. Determine Target
Determine the target of the spell and check to be sure that it is valid.
Watch for line-of-sight restrictions on the spell. Determine the base
target number, which will vary with the spell cast and the target.
Spellcasting target numbers for inanimate objects are given in the
Object Resistance Table, p. 130.

C. Apply Situation Modifiers
Situation modifiers such as injury (p. 112), cover, and visibility
modifiers (p. 89) apply to spellcasting. Targets within a hermetic
circle, medicine lodge, or within a mana barrier spell also suffer a + 1
target modifier per every 2 rating points of the circle or lodge, or
every 2 Force Points of the barrier spell. Each spell currently
sustained also adds +2 to the target number.

D. Make Spell Success Test
Roll a number of dice equal to the Force of the spell, plus any
allocated Magic Pool dice, against the modified target number.
Count the successes.

If the spell does not require that the target make a Spell Resistance
Test, apply the magician’s successes to determine the final effect,
per the spell’s description.

E. Make Spell Resistance Test
If applicable, make the target's Spell Resistance Test. Roll a number
of dice equal to the target's Body or Willpower (as appropriate to
either a physical or mana spell), against a target number equal to the
spell Force Rating. Count the successes. Magicians may add unused
dice from their Magic Pool if they desire.

If the cast spell was a damaging manipulation spell, then this test
is actually a Damage Resistance Test, as in Ranged Combat. See
Ranged Combat, p. 87, and Manipulation Spells, p. 156, for more
information.

F. Determine Result
Compare the successes. If the spellcaster generated more suc-
cesses than did the target, the spell’s effect is based on how many
more net successes the spellcaster roll made than the target. See
the specific spell description for the actual effect. If the target rolled
more successes, the spell goes off but there is no effect.

G. Make Drain Resistance Test

To make the Drain Resistance Test, roll the spellcaster’s Willpower
dice, plus any allocated Magic Pool dice, against a target number
equal to the modified Force of the spell. Count the successes and
reduce the Drain damage by one level for every two successes
generated. Apply the remaining damage, if any, to the Stun
Condition Monitor, or, if the Force of the spell exceeded the
spelicaster’s Magic Rating, to the Physical Condition Monitor.

 

SHADOWRUN 129


 

Spell Targeting

In choosing a target or targets, the magician can choose
anything within sight. Sight is the key concept. Magicians cannot
directly affect what they cannot see. Binoculars, glasses, tele-
scopes, and other devices can enhance vision for spellcasting, as
can any magic or technology that penetrates darkness. A magician
cannot, however, cast spells directly at invisible beings or beings in
astral space except by using enhanced vision or astral perception,
as appropriate. Remote vision, such as through a telecom screen,
security camera, or aremote-sensing spell like clairvoyance are also
useless for casting spells. A good rule of thumb is that magicians
must be able to see their targets with their own eyes or a natural
extension of those eyes. The image of the target must be the original
image; nothing that translates the image into another medium
works. So, optical binoculars work fine for spellcasting, but elec-
tronic binoculars that digitize the light from the image and com-
puter-enhance it would not work.

Mirrors work fine, and transparent glass is no hindrance, but
unless the mage is on the “see-though” side of a one-way mirror,
that would not work either. Cybereyes work because the magician
has paid Essence for them. The remote cameras of a drone,
however, would not work. See Combat Spells (p. 151), Spells and
Astral Space (p. 149), and Manipulation Spells (p. 156) for further
discussions of vision and spell targeting.

Spell Target Numbers

The actual base target number varies with the type and
category of spell. If the target is a living being, then the target
number is usually the target’s Willpower, if the spell is a mana spell,
or Body if the spell is a physical spell. If the target of a physical spell
is an inanimate object, find the target number by consulting the
Object Resistance Table in the following section.

Treat and heal spells have separate target numbers. See
individual spell descriptions.

 

Ranged damaging manipulation spells, such as flamethrower,
have a base Target Number 4. Situation target modifiers apply (see
p. 89).

Inanimate Objects

The target number for spells cast against inanimate objects is
based on the material from which the object is made. The more
high-tech or processed the object is, the harder it is for magic to
affect it. See the Object Resistance Table, below, for a list of sample
objects and materials.

The target numbers listed in the table are the magician’s
targets for the Spell Force Success Test.

OBJECT RESISTANCE TABLE
Target
Number

Category

Natural objects
(trees, soil, unprocessed water)
Manufactured low-tech objects and materials

(brick, leather, simple plastics)
Manufactured high-tech objects and materials
(advanced plastics, alloys,
electronic equipment) 8
Highly processed objects
(computers, complex toxic wastes)

10 or more

Area-Effect Spells

Some spells have an area effect, allowing them to affect more
than one target at a time. The base radius of effect for all area-effect
spells, regardless of category, is equal to the magician’s Magic
Rating in meters. Regardless of the magician’s intent, area-effect
spells affect all valid targets, friend, foe, and neutral alike, within the
area of effect. For this reason, magicians often vary the area of effect.
This is done by withholding dice from the Spell Success Test. The
magician can reduce the base radius by | meter for every 2 dice
withheld from the Spell Success Test. Conversely, he can also
increase the area of effect. This is done in a similar manner, except
that ‘every | die withheld from the Spell Force Test increases the
area-effect radius by 1 meter. Controlling this kind of power is much
more difficult than letting it loose. The number of dice removed for
area-effect modification may not exceed the Force Rating of the
spell. Magic Pool dice can be used even if all the Force dice have
been effectively removed, up to a maximum number equal to the
original Force of the spell.

To make a Spell Success Test for an area-effect spell, roll the
dice only once, then compare the results of that roll against the
varying target numbers for each of the valid targets within the area
of effect. The caster’s successes are counted separately for each
target within the radius effect of the spell.

Situation Modifiers

Standard injury modifiers (p. 112), and cover and visibility
modifiers (p. 89) apply to spellcasting. The harder it is to see a
target, the harder it is to hit.

 

130 SHADOWRUN
Magical protection, such as a mana barrier spell, applies a +1
target modifier for every 2 points of Force Rating the spell has. This
modifier applies to all spells cast across the barrier, excluding those
spells cast by the magician who erected the barrier.

Additionally, magic cast within a hermetic circle or medicine
lodge is subject to a +1 target modifier for every 2 rating points of
the circle or lodge. This modifier applies to all spells, with the
exception of those cast by the mage who inscribed the hermetic
circle, or by shamans of the totem appropriate to the medicine
lodge.

If the magician is currently sustaining any spells (see p. 128),
add an additional modifier of +2 per spell currently sustained.

Spells with a Touch requirement (hand-to-hand physical con-
tact must be made) are subject only to injury modifiers.

Spell Success Test

To determine if the spell is successfully cast, make a Success
Test with a number of dice equal to the Force of the spell, plus any
allocated Magic Pool dice, against the target number calculated
above. If no successes result, the spell is miscast and there is no
effect. If the die results are all ones, the Rule of Ones applies, a
misfire occurs and the target number for the Drain Resistance Test
is increased by +2. If there are successes, count and keep track of
them.

If the spell does not require that the target make a Spell
Resistance Test, apply the successes according to the spell descrip-
tion to determine the final result.

Jason Eldrich is throwing a power dart spell at a
mercenary. The spell has a Force Rating 4 and Jason is
allocating 6 additional dice from his Magic Pool. The merc
has a Body of 5.

Jason has a Light physical wound, and therefore
receives a +1 to the target number for his Spell Success
Test. The merc is standing in clear view, with nothing
blocking or interrupting Jason's view of him, so neither
cover nor visibility modifiers apply. The spell is not
exclusive, and the mage has no spells sustained, so the
target modifiers for those do not apply.

Rolling the dice, Jason gets a total of 10 (4 + 6) against
a Target Number 6 (5 + 1). The results are 1, 3, 4, 5, 5, 6,
6, 6, 6, 6. Five of the dice score as 5 or better, so there are
5 successes.

Spell Resistance Test

If the spell requires it, the target can now make a Spell
Resistance Test. The base number of dice rolled is equal to the
resisting attribute (Body or Willpower). If the target is a magician
with Magic Pool dice, or if he has previously allocated Spell Defense
dice to protect him (see Spell Defense Dice, p. 132), he may add
those additional dice to the test.

The target number for this test is equal to the Force of the spell
being resisted.

The mercenary who Jason Eldrich targeted with his
power dart spell now gets to make his Spell Resistance
Test. The character has a Body of 5, so he rolls 5 dice
against a Target Number 4, whichis the Force Rating of the
spell. As the mercenary is not a magician, he cannot add
Magic Pool dice to the test, and no other characters had
the forethought to allocate Spell Defense dice to him, so
all he rolls are the 5 dice.

The results of the roll area 2, 2, 3, 5, and 6. Two of the
dice score as 4 or better, so there are 2 successes.

If the spell cast is a damaging manipulation spell, then this is
actually a Damage Resistance Test, as in Ranged Combat (see p. 87).
The reason is that damaging manipulations create energy in the
physical world, and that energy is “hurled” or directed against the
target, much like a ranged weapon. See Manipulation Spells, p.
156, for more information.

Determining Spell Result

If no Spell Resistance Test is necessary, the successes gener-
ated from the Spell Success Test are used directly, in accordance
with the spell description, to determine the final result.

Against resisting targets, compare the spellcaster’s successes
against the target’s successes in the Spell Resistance Test. If the
target generated more successes, the spell does not affect him. The
spell was successfully cast, however, so its presence may be visible
even though the target is unaffected.

If the spellcaster and the target make the same number of
successes, the tie goes in favor of the attacker, with the spell’s
minimum effect done. For example, most combat spells start with
a Damage Level of Light. On a tie, such a spell would do Light
damage. Some spells, however, do not have a minimum effect. To
be successful, these spells require at least one success in the

“spellcaster’s favor.

If the spellcaster rolls more successes than the target, the spell
has an effect. The spell’s effect is measured by the difference
between the spelicaster’s and the target’s successes.

Gamemasters and players should be sure to consult the
descriptions of the spells involved, as well as the section describing
the type of spell, for special rules or considerations. Objects that do
not have specific rules assigned to them (such as Vehicles, p. 108)
use a number of resistance dice equal to the value given on the
Object Resistance Table, p. 130.

Jason Eldrich’s power dart spell hits the mercenary.
Jason has 5 successes, the mercenary only 2. The differ-
ence between them is 3, in Jason's favor, so the power
dart’s success is measured in 3 successes.

According to the spell's description, the spell has a
Damage Level of Light. The spell has 3 successes, but
because it requires 2 successes to increase the damage
one level, the mercenary takes only a Moderate physical
wound. If Jason had generated 6 successes, or the merce-
nary 1! less, for a total difference of 4 successes, the
mercenary would take a Serious physical wound.

 

SHADOWRUN 131
 

Drain Resistance Test

Lastly, the spellcaster must make a Drain Resistance Test. Roll
a base number of dice equal to his Willpower Rating, plus any Magic
Pool dice that have been allocated to resist Drain. The target number
is the Spell Force Rating, modified by the Drain notation given with
the spell’s description. No target modifiers apply to this test. Every
2 successes rolled in the Drain Resistance Test lowers the Drain by
one level.

Jason now has to worry about Drain. He has a
Willpower Rating of 6 and has allocated 2 dice (his last 2)
from his Magic Pool to help in the Drain Resistance Test.
This gives him a total of 8 dice rolled against a Target
Number 4. The power dart spell has a Drain Level of Light,
so Jason needs to roll only 2 successes to reduce the Drain
to 0.

The dice are rolled, and Jason's luck fails. The results
are 1,2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 3, 4. Only | die resulted in a 4 or better,
so he has only 1 success. Needing 2 to stage the damage
down one level, Jason is unable to do so and takes a Light
Stun wound.

NOTICING SPELLCASTING

Just how obvious is spellcasting? Not very, unless the observer
knows what he is looking at and is paying attention. The raw power
and complexity of the spell also matter.

Noticing a spellcasting requires a Perception Test, that is,
Intelligence dice rolled against a target number equal to twice the
difference between the Force of the spell being cast and the Magic
Rating of the spellcaster. A magician with a Magic Rating of 6, for
example, is attempting to quietly cast a spell with a Force Rating 4.
Any characters watching would have to beat a Target Number of 4
(6 minus 4, doubled) to notice it. If the spell had been Force Rating
2, the Target Number would be 8.

Situation modifiers should also be applied. See Perception, p.
185, for the list of the most common modifiers. Beyond those listed
there, the gamemaster may wish to apply an additional —2 modifier
if the observing character is also a magician. An astrally projecting
or perceiving character automatically notices the colorful astral
display associated with spellcasting.

SPELL DEFENSE DICE

Magicians may, immediately following the declaration of their
actions, allocate dice from their Magic Pool as Spell Defense. This
is an area effect that encompasses all characters or objects within
the allocating magician’s vision (direct line-of-sight) that the magi-
cian chooses to protect.

These dice act as a kind of defensive Magic Pool for all it
protects, including the casting magician. When protected charac-
ters or objects are attacked by magic, the magician that allocated
the Spell Defense dice in the first place can choose to use those dice
to protect that target. Spell Defense dice, once expended, are lost
until reallocated at the time the Magic Pool refreshes. Spell Defense
must be reallocated.

In order to benefit from defensive magic dice, characters must
be within view of the controlling magician at the time the dice are
used in their favor. Again, like spellcasting, the view that works is
normal vision or a natural extension of it.

Neddy, injured in a previous fight, has been sitting
overwatch as his chummers do the final exchange of data
and nuyen at the end of what has been a particularly taxing
shadowrun. Neddy has allocated 6 of his Magic Pool dice
as Spell Defense dice and is using them to protect the
teammates whom he can see (four of them) and the
satchel carrying the goods.

Suddenly, something goes wrong, and magic begins
raining down on the meet site. Two of Neddy's chummers
are targeted, so Neddy spends 2 dice from the Spell
Defense Pool on each of them (a total of 4 dice). He holds
2 of the dice in reserve in case something else is up and
the sudden magic is only a diversion.

When the two protected characters make their Spell
Resistance Tests against the incoming magic, they add 2
more dice to the test, thanks to the Spell Defense dice
Neddy has allocated to them.

LEARNING A NEW SPELL

Before a magician can cast a spell, it must be learned. He can
learn it from a another magician who already knows it, or design it
himself if he has the spell formula. Spell design is not covered in this
book, but is included in The Grimoire, the advanced magic
sourcebook for use with the Shadowrun game system.

Teachers cost numerous nuyen. The teacher cannot do any-
thing else while coaching the magician one on one for as long as it
takes to learn the spell. If the teacher quits before the magician
learns the spell, all the time spent is wasted. Teachers charge what
the market will bear, but a typical price is 1,000¥ times the Spell
Force Rating, plus living expenses.

Teaching a spell does not take the Magic Rating that casting it
does. As long as the teacher magician is still functional (at least 1
Magic Rating point left), he can instruct the student in spells at any
Force the latter desires, up to the maximum at which the teacher
knows the spell.

A shaman learning a new spell spends time chanting, dancing,
and carrying on. This whips up the kind of emotional peak shamans
need to contact the spell energy. The shaman must study in a
medicine lodge with a rating at least equal to the Spell Force. A
mage spends time in meditation, intense study, and formal ritual.
The mage needs peace and quiet and a sorcery library with a rating
at least equal to the Spell Force.

Shamans and mages make bad neighbors and worse room-
mates. The differences between “hermetic nerds” and “party sha-
mans” are a running gag on the popular trivid series “The Odd
Coven”.

Learning a spell requires a Success Test using dice from the
character's Sorcery and Magical Theory Skills. The Target Number
is twice the desired Force. A shaman gets totem modifiers, if
appropriate. A mage may get extra dice if aided by an elemental

 

132 SHADOWRUN
TALS

appropriate to the spell. All target number modifiers for damage to
the magician apply, as do distractions for sustaining spells, bad
conditions, and so on.

If the instructing mage has an appropriate Special Skill, such as
Teaching, he can make a Teaching Test against a target number
equal to the Spell Force Rating, minus the pupil's Intelligence, with
a minimum Target Number 2. Successes from this test reduce the
magician’s target number.

Learning a spell requires a base number of days equal to the
desired Force. Divide this by the number of successes. The mini-
mum time is one day. Learning spells also costs Karma (see p. 190)
equal to the desired Force.

If the player rolls no successes, the learning attempt fails. The
magician has wasted his time, a number of days equal to Force.
Fortunately, failed study does not cost Karma, but teachers will still
expect to be paid. Never stiff a man who can throw a fireball,
comprende?

RESTRICTED USE SPELLS

When learning a spell, the magician can accept limitations on
its use, even if the teacher does not know the spell in that form.
These restricted-use spells are exclusive spells and fetish-required
spells. Having learned these spells, a magician can cast them with
a Force Rating higher than his Magic Rating without risking Physical
damage. The force modifier for restricted use applies to that spell
permanently. If the magician wants to know the spell with different
options, he must lear it all over again, at which point he will know
both versions of the spell.

An exclusive spell allows the spell to be cast as if its Force
Rating were 2 points higher, for the purposes of determining the
spell’s effect. Drain is calculated at the normal Force value, how-
ever. When casting an exclusive spell, the magician cannot sustain
or cast any other spells in the same action. When sustaining an
exclusive spell, the magician cannot cast any other spells or use
another magical skill.

Neddy, who has a Magic Rating of 6, wants to be able
to toss a killer fireball spell. He accepts the exclusive spell
modifier (-2) and leas the spell at Force 6. Neddly is able
to cast his fireball spell at Force 8, without exceeding his
Magic Rating, but he must also abide by all the restrictions
for using an exclusive spell.

A fetish-required spell is cast at 1 Force Rating Point higher if
a reusable fetish is used, or at 2 Force Rating Points higher for an
expendable fetish. The magician needs some physical object to cast
the spell, choosing it at the time of learning the spell. This prop is
a fetish, an anthropological term that means a ritual item used in
“primitive” magic. (Primitive to those mundane chummers, maybe.)
The magician must have a fetish in hand to use it. If the magician is
wearing the fetish, he need only touch it. The fetish belongs to a
specific spell, and the same one cannot be used for different spells.

Fetishes can be purchased from a talismonger, with prices
depending on the spell’s category. A magician cannot substitute

 

one fetish for another, but a reusable fetish is a durable object that
can be used again and again. An expendable fetish is used up or
destroyed when the spell is cast. In other words, the spell needs
ammo that must be replaced every time.

It is possible to learn a spell requiring either an expendable or
a reusable fetish, but not both.

The magician can allocate Magic Pool dice, based on the
adjusted rating of the spell with an exclusivity or fetish-required
Force modifier. See Magic Pool, p. 85, for more information.

Shamanic Fetishes

Reusable: Drums, rattles, knives, tomahawks, spears, carved
wooden or bone wands, native jewelry, carvings, masks, and
medicine bags, pouches filled with a complex mixture of minerals,
herbs, and animal parts.

Expendable: Small packets of herbs, curiously shaped twigs,
tufts of feathers or animal hair, small stones or crystals, crude
miniature weapons, bits of bone, shells, and so on.

Hermetic Fetishes

Reusable: Ornate wands (usually jeweled), rings, amulets and
other jewelry, complex illustrated scrolls covered with diagrams,
and such.

Expendable: Small parchment talismans, chemical mixtures
or potions, crystals or stones, painted charms, and so on.

Starting Spells

With the gamemaster’s permission, a magician can begin the
game with spells that have Force modifiers. The spell would be
purchased at the original Force Rating (paying that number of Force
Points) and then modified per the Force modifier.

The maximum Force Rating of 6 still applies, however, for
starting characters.

RITUAL SORCERY

Ritual sorcery is a spellcasting process in which the spell builds
gradually, taking hours to complete. This lets magicians cooperate,
pooling their skills and power. It also allows magicians to cast spells
on targets that are not within visual range. Use the Ritual Sorcery
Concentration Rating of the Sorcery Skill for all tests in this section.

A shaman must be in a medicine lodge with a rating at least
equal to the Force of the spell being ritually cast. A mage must be
in a hermetic circle for the spell being cast, with the circle’s rating
at least equal to the spell’s Force.

Ritual sorcery requires special materials. These materials are
generalized, and the magician need only pay the cost and keep
track of which materials he has on hand. Following are the costs for
materials needed to perform various types of ritual sorcery spells:

*Detection materials cost 100¥ times the spell’s Force Rating.

‘Health materials cost 500¥ times the Force.

‘Illusion materials cost 100¥ times the Force.

*Manipulation materials cost 1,000¥ times the Force.

Magicians cannot cast combat spells using ritual sorcery.
Casting the spell uses up the materials, regardless of the outcome
of the spell.

 

SHADOWRUN 133

 
MATERIAL LINK

If the magician cannot see the target, he needs a material link
to perform ritual sorcery. If the target is a living being, the material
link is a tissue sample that contains the being’s DNA pattern. If the
target is not a living being, the magician needs an integral piece of
its structure. The magician could, for example, target a building
using a brick pried from one of its walls, but he could not use a
picture that once hung inside.

If a ritual team is involved in the spellcasting, however, one of
its members can astrally guide the spell toward its target, making
a material link unnecessary. See Astral Guiding in the next section.

RITUAL TEAMS

Ritual sorcery lets magicians cooperate in casting a spell, but
all members of a ritual team must know the spell. The magicians
must belong to the same tradition, but shamans of different totems
may cooperate in a ritual team. The maximum size of a ritual team
is equal to the lowest Sorcery Skill Rating among the members. A
chain is only as strong as its weakest link. If a magician has a Sorcery
Skill Rating 4, for example, only three other magicians can join him
on the team.

Once the ritual begins, the magicians are linked together
magically. The entire ritual counts as one spellcasting action, which
affects how magical items are used. A Rating 4 focus, for example,
adds 4 dice over the course of the whole ritual, not at each stage of
the ritual. The ritual team should designate one of its magician
members as leader. All tests use that character’s modifiers for
totems and equipment, not those for the totem of the medicine
lodge.

At the beginning of the ritual, all the magicians combine their
Magic Pools into one. Because the entire ritual is a single action, this
pool is not refreshed at any time during the ritual and team
members cannot use their individual Magic Pools unless that
individual withdraws from the team. If any member does so, reduce
the remaining dice in the pool by the number of dice in the
withdrawing character's Magic Pool. Should this exhaust the ritual
team’s pool, the spell aborts and all team members must make a
Drain Resistance Test, whether they have pulled out or not.

Modifiers affecting one member of the team (wounds, for
example) affect only that individual. They do not change the overall
effectiveness of the team except if the leader is the one affected.

Astral Guiding

In astral guiding, a team member is used to “spot” the target
in astral space, making a material link unnecessary. This team
member does not contribute to the Magic Pool for the rite, but is
subject to Drain along with everybody else. If this forward observer
is killed or driven away from the target, the spell aborts and all team
members must make Drain Resistance Tests. The observer must
stay in astral space until the sending of the spell is complete.

CASTING RITUAL SORCERY SPELLS

The following summary briefly outlines the sequence of steps
in casting a spell by ritual sorcery. These steps are explained in detail
in the next section.

 

 

A. Prepare for Sending
The ritual team chooses the spell, combines the Magic Pool dice (if
available) of all the team members, and the leader declares the
Force of the spell to be cast.

B. Form Material Link
If the target is in view of a ritual team member guiding the sending
from astral space, skip this step. If not, the team must lock the spell
on target using the material link. This takes a number of hours equal
to the Spell Force Rating. At that time the leader spends dice from
the Ritual Magic Pool against a target number based on the link and
the distance to the target.

C. The Sending
Having built up the spell’s power, the team now directs it against
the target. The sending takes a number of hours equal to the spell’s
Force. Use dice from the Ritual Magic Pool against a target number
based on the nature of the target, specifics of the target’s situation,
and the specifics of the spell involved.

D. Determine the Effect
The spell’s effect is now assessed as if it were a regular spell. The
Spell Success Test is made with Ritual Magic Pool dice against a
target number determined by the spell and the target. The actual
effect is per the spell’s description.

E. Resist Drain
The ritual team now resists Drain. Each member of the team makes
a Drain Resistance Test, just as though he had cast the spell alone.
Any dice remaining in the Ritual Magic Pool may be divided up
among the team members as the leader wishes. This step occurs
even if the ritual sorcery aborts at any stage along the way.

Preparation

After preparing the place for working the spell (the medicine
lodge or hermetic circle), the team members combine their Magic
Pools into the Ritual Magic Pool. Dice cannot be drawn from the
Ritual Magic Pool without the leader's permission, unless the
magician who wishes to do so also withdraws from the team. The
leader declares the Force of the spell to be cast. Team members
cannot sustain or cast other spells when working in ritual sorcery,
and so they must drop any such spells as part of the preparation
step.

Material Link

If the target is in sight or being observed in astral space, skip
this stage and move on to the next step, The Sending. Otherwise,
the team must lock on to the target using the material link. This takes
a base time in hours equal to the Force of the spell. At the end of that
time, the leader allocates dice from the Ritual Magic Pool for a
success test. The target number depends on how closely the team
can pinpoint the target's location, per the table below. Apply
modifiers appropriate to the nature of the target and any protection
it has, also found on the table.

 

SHADOWRUN 135
A single success is sufficient to link the spell to the target.
Divide the successes into the base time for the linking (Force in
hours) to determine the actual time it takes. If the team achieves no
successes, the spell aborts and each team member makes a Drain
Resistance Test.

MATERIAL LINK TABLE
Target Location Target Number

City or county known 5
State, province, or country known

Continent known 9
Unknown 11

MAGIC LINK MODIFIERS

Situation Modifier
Target is a spirit +2
Target is protected by mana barrier + Barrier's Rating
Target within a hermetic circle

or medicine lodge + Rating
Tissue is not fresh

(within target's essence in hours) +4

The Sending

This stage builds up the power of the spell and directs it at the
target. The leader allocates dice from the Ritual Magic Pool for a
success test. Determine the target number from the Sending Table.

There are two possible modifiers to this target number. If the
target is moving faster than running, as by plane, car, or train, apply
+2. If the team is casting an area spell, apply a-1 modifier to the
target number.

The time required for the sending is a number of hours equal
to the spell’s Force, divided by the number of successes rolled. The
minimum time is one hour. If the team rolls no successes, the spell
aborts and each member of the team makes a Drain Resistance Test.

SENDING TABLE
Target Type Target Number
Specific place

Human or metahuman
Specific object
Spirit

Noticing the Sending

During this time, any magician who sees the target from astral
space has a chance of noticing what is happening. An observer
should make an Intelligence Test against a target number equal to
Force of the sending, minus the number of hours into the sending
when the observation takes place. Only | success is needed to
recognize and identify the sending.

If the target is a magician, there is a chance that he too will
notice the sending. The chance is calculated as above for an outside
observer, except the target number increases by +2.

 

 

 

Determine the Effect

If this is an area spell, the base radius is equal to the ritual team
leader’s Magic Rating, and it can be altered by subtracting dice from
the pool, per the normal rules for area-effect spells, p. 130.

Make a normal Spell Success Test using dice from the Ritual
Magic Pool. Because the material link has been established, modi-
fiers for hermetic circles, medicine lodges, and mana barriers do not
apply. Modifiers for cover and visibility do not apply either. Only
any injury modifiers the leader may have apply. If the leader is a
shaman, totem modifiers also apply.

The spell is resolved in the normal manner, per the spell
description. If a Spell Resistance Test is necessary, it is made against
a target number equal to the Force of the spell or the ritual team
leader's Ritual Sorcery Skill, whichever is higher. Allies of the target
may allocate Spell Defense dice (p. 132) if they are aware of the
sending prior to his arrival.

Sustaining Ritual Sorcery

If the spell is successful, and requires sustaining, the ritual team
can sustain it by allocating any remaining dice from the Ritual Magic
Pool to that end. A ritual spell may be maintained for a number of
hours equal to the Magic Rating of the team leader multiplied by the
number of dice. Mages can also use an elemental to maintain the
spell for a number of days equal to the Spell Force Rating. (See the
Elemental rules later in this chapter.)

The magicians on the ritual team may also maintain the spell
themselves. They can simply stay locked into a team, concentrating
on the spell. This still leaves an astral path leading back to the team,
though, and also counts as sustaining a spell, adding +2 to the Drain
Resistance Test for each team member. Magicians sustaining a spell
in this manner need not remain physically adjacent, but they can only
undertake non-intensive mundane tasks while sustaining the spell.

Tracking Back a Sending

It is possible to track back a detected sending. Once someone
has noticed the sending, tendrils of power can be seen reaching
across astral space, linking the ritual caster(s) and the target. To
follow this path a magician uses the Astral Tracking rules on p. 149.

Once the ritual caster(s) is found, he can be attacked in astral
space. During the sending stage the ritual team is considered to be
present in astral space and therefore vulnerable to Astral Combat
(see p. 147).

If time and distance allow, the target can mount a physical
assault on the ritual team. If the team has no physical defenders, this
works very well. If the magicians do not pull their dice out of the
pool for use in defending themselves, they become sitting ducks.
And if they do pull out their dice, it aborts the ritual.

Resist Drain

The ritual team now resists Drain. Each member of the team
acts as if he had cast the spell alone, making a Drain Resistance Test.
The leader decides how to divide up any remaining Ritual Magic
Pool dice among the team members.

If team members have extra dice for the spell because of foci,
totem modifiers, or spirit aid they have not previously used in
casting this spell, they may add those dice as well.

Drain is handled per the individual spell.

 

136 SHADOWRUN
FOCI

Foci (the plural of focus), are items of magical power of use to
a magician. Magicians, because of their magically active genetic
structure, are the only individuals who can use foci. To a mundane,
a focus appears to be whatever it looks like or is made from. To a
magician, the focus is a source of channeled power, a tool to assist
in the casting of spells or the conjuring of spirits.

Foci, in order to be of any use to the magician, must be
enchanted. When using these basic Shadowrun rules, magicians
will use previously enchanted foci that they purchase from
talismongers. Magicians who want to create their own foci will find
rules for doing soin The Grimoire, the advanced magic sourcebook.

There are five basic classes of foci: spell foci, which help in
sorcery, spirit foci, which help in conjuring, power foci, which boost
the Magic Pool, spell locks, which sustain spells, and weapon foci,
which assist in combat.

All foci, with the exception of spell locks, have a rating of at
least 1, and usually higher. The higher the rating, the more powerful
the focus. Spell locks cannot have a rating greater than 1.

AVAILABILITY
As stated above, foci are generally available through
talismongers (dealers in arcane objects). The more powerful the
focus, the less likely it is to be available at any given time.
Consult the Gear chapter for prices and availability.

BONDING A FOCUS

A magician must bond a focus before he can use it. Bonding is
accomplished by spending Karma, the amount depending on the
type of focus and its rating. Consult the Focus Bonding Table below.

Having paid the required Karma, the bonding magician now
has access to the bonuses or abilities of the focus. Only one
magician may bond a single item at a time, and only that magician
can use it.

Ifone magician finds or takes another's magical focus, that item
can only be used by the new magician if he spends the Karma to
bond it.

FOCUS BONDING TABLE
Item Karma Cost
Specific Spell Focus Rating
Spell Category Focus 3 x Rating
2 x Rating
5 x Rating
1 Karma Point
4 x Rating
5 x Rating

Spirit Focus

Power Focus

Spell Lock

Weapon Focus, Small
Weapon Focus, Large

USING A FOCUS

A magician must activate a magical focus before he can use it.
It takes one Simple Action to activate the focus, but requires no
action to use or apply. The use of a weapon focus, however, occurs
in conjunction with an armed attack, which requires a Complex
Action, per the Melee Combat rules (see p. 100).

 

The number of foci that may be active on a magician at one time
is equal to the character's Intelligence Rating. Once activated, a
focus operates as long as it is on the magician’s person, whether he
wears, carries, or holds it in his hand, pocket, or pouch. If the focus
is snatched away or dropped, it immediately deactivates, and the
magician loses all benefits until it is recovered. The focus need not
be re-bound if picked up by the same magician.

The only exception to the above are spell locks, which are
discussed below.

SPELL FOCI

A spell focus gives a magician extra dice for use with a specific
spell or category of spells. These constitute two subtypes: specific
spell foci and spell category foci.

Both types operate in a similar manner in that they make
available an additional number of dice equal to their rating. Like
Dice Pools, once the Spell Focus dice are used, they are gone until
the beginning of the magician’s next action. In fact, treat these dice
exactly like Magic Pool dice for the purposes of when they refresh
and so on. They should NOT, however, simply be added into the
Magic Pool, as they have limited, specific uses.

Specific Spell Foci

A specific spell focus provides extra dice equal to its rating for
the tests to cast and resist Drain associated with one specific spell.
The magician must indicate which spell at the time the focus is
bonded. Dice provided by a specific spell focus cannot be used to
assist the magician in defending against the same spell cast by
another magician. In other words, dice from specific spell foci are
usable only for the Spell Success and Drain Resistance Tests for that
specific spell. They are of no help with Spell Resistance Tests.

Dice from a specific spell focus cannot be used as Spell Defense
dice.

Spell Category Foci

Spell category foci are useful for all spells within a single
category of spells, such as combat spells, detection spells, and so
on. The magician must specify the category for which the focus is
useful at the time he bonds the focus.

The spell category focus provides a number of extra dice equal
to its rating for use in the Spell Success or Drain Resistance Tests for
any spells the magician knows within the category. Additionally,
the magician can use spell category focus dice to assist in resisting
a spell cast by another magician from within that category.

Dice from a spell category focus cannot be used as Spell
Defense dice.

SPIRIT FOCI

Spirit foci provide extra dice for use with conjuring. The
magician must declare the specific spirit type for which he will use
the focus (e.g., water elemental, hearth spirit, desert spirit, and so
on) at the time of bonding. A spirit focus only works for the type of
spirit for which it was specifically bonded.

A spirit focus provides a number of additional dice equal to its
rating, and these can be used to summon, banish, or control a spirit
of that specific type. The magician can also use the dice for the Drain
Resistance Test. He may, however, only use a number of dice up to

 

SHADOWRUN 137
the focus’ rating in all the various tests associated with summoning
a single spirit. See Conjuring, pp. 139-44, for more information.

POWER FOCI
Power foci are the most flexible, and the most powerful type
of magical foci. First, they increase a magician’s Magic Rating by
their value, thereby allowing the character to cast higher-Force
spells without fear of taking physical Drain damage. Additionally,
they add dice equal to their rating
directly into the Magic Pool. These
bonus Magic Pool dice can be
used for anything that regular
Magic Pool dice can affect.


          
   

The magician who creates the spell locks can activate and
deactivate them at will. All it takes is a Simple Action. It counts
toward the creating magician’s limit of active foci, regardless of
whether the active spell lock is on the person of the creating
magician or stuck onto another.

There are drawbacks to using spell locks. As long as the focus
is working, a thread of astral energy connects the lock to its creator.
This can be traced through astral space by means of Astral Tracking

(see p. 149). Still-active spell locks

(those that have not been re-

: : moved from their target) can be
Sos used as a material link that makes
Se the lock’s creator vulnerable to
ritual sorcery. Obviously, magi-


 

SPELL LOCKS = x. 4 aN or AE" \ cians do not leave these things
Spell locks are special foci that SES KK Ss RAR ES § X lying casually around.
Ee AA FN s AN
establish a link with astral space SHAK NS W\ a WX
and channel astral energy intoa x. MSS Ek vos 8 NE W\ WEAPON FOCI
spell, allowing it to be sustained We rate, NN XN Commonly referred to as
MEE YS A=: S . .
without the casting magician’s SS Nae X So \ magic weapons, weapon foci
concentration or concem. SX . - ,

Spell locks are not pre-
bonded. Having successfully cast
a sustainable spell, the magician

  

expends a single point of Kama =~ EES
and links the spell lock to the spell wee
and to astral space, thereby sus- SX. we

Ss

taining the spell. The casting and Yorn™ =
bonding processes occur simulta-
neously, which means a magician ws

cannot keep re-casting a spellin = SS"

order to try for the most possible

successes before bonding it to the

spell lock. Once activated, the spell

lock sustains the spell from astral

space without any additional in-

volvement of the spellcaster.

Spell locks, once bonded toa
particular spell, need not be acti-
vated immediately. A magician
can create the lock and then give it to another magician of the same
tradition (shamanic or hermetic) for placement and activation.
Anyone can, theoretically, place the spell lock, but only another
magician of the proper tradition can activate it. Activation occurs by
touch and the expenditure of a Simple Action. The lock is dormant
until activated, though anyone who glances at it with astral percep-
tion will recognize it for what it is.

A spell lock must be placed in contact with its target in order
to operate. It can be worn, hung, nailed to, or stuck in a pocket, as
long as it is in contact with its intended target.

For all intents and purposes, the spell lock vanishes once it is in
place. It is still there, and operating, but mundanes cannot see it,
touch it, or affect it. A magician can see it if he is astrally perceiving,
but that is the only way. To normal sight, it is invisible. If a magician
spots the lock, he can remove it. Once removed, the link is broken and
the lock goes dormant. It must be re-bonded to be of any future use.
At the time it is re-bonded, the lock can be used to lock a different spell.

Wy
S

  

; a # pees work differently than the other

* . types of foci. Assuming that the
user of a weapon focus is magi-
cally active (has at least a Magic
Rating of 1) and has spent Karma
to bond the focus, a weapon fo-
cus adds its rating to the user’s
Armed Combat Skill in a fight.
Adepts, including physical adepts,
can use a weapon focus.

Despite the rumors of en-
chanted missiles that abound, and
despite massive research funded
by the military-industrial complex,
no one has yet found a way to
enchant any kind of missile, much
less firearms or bullets. The prob-
lem is that a weapon focus only
functions in the hands ofits owner.
As soon at it leaves those hands,
it ceases to function. This makes enchanting any kind of missile
weapon difficult, to say the least.

A weapon focus does increased damage in astral combat (see
p. 147), and paranormal creatures that have defenses against
normal weapons and damage do not have that defense against a
weapon focus (see Powers of the Awakened, p. 214). When a
magician wielding a weapon focus astrally projects, an image of the
focus translates into astral space along with the magician, and so he
can use it there. Active weapon foci are present in astral space and
can be used against critters or spirits that are only present there.

If used against creatures with the critter power of regeneration
(p. 219), the weapon focus can slay the creature. If the wound is
Deadly or takes the creature down because of previous damage, the
creature must make an Essence Test with a target number equal to
the rating of the weapon focus, multiplied by 2. If the test fails, the
critter does not regenerate. If the test succeeds, the being makes
the normal test for regeneration.

Linthteee

 

138 SHADOWRUN
WPAN Le

All weapon foci must contain the magic metal orichalcum (or-
i-cal-cum) in their construction. Orichalcum is a magical metal alloy
of copper, gold, silver, and mercury, a metallurgical nightmare that
cannot even exist without magic. It is a rich yellow-orange color and
was, according to legend, first discovered in Atlantis.

ATTACKING THROUGH A FOCUS

There is a disadvantage to having an active focus of any kind.
Being a continually powered astral energy, a magical focus creates
a continual, open bridge from astral to mundane space. This is
dangerous.

A spell cannot normally be cast from astral to mundane space,
or vice versa. These two different realms are separated by an
interface that can only be crossed under specific circumstances and
criteria. Spellcasting is not one of them. This means that characters
who are in mundane space, and have no connection to astral space,
are safe from any astrally projecting magicians or exclusively astral
spirits or creatures.

A focus, by virtue of its nature, creates a pathway between the
two realms. Through this channel, an astrally present magician can
cast a spell at the focus’ physical component. Because the spell is
affecting the physical materials of the focus, the spell must be a
physical type.

Though it may seem that only the focus itself can be affected
in this manner, that is not completely true. If the astrally projecting
magician were to cast an area-effect spell centered on the focus, it
would be possible to hit all targets within the spell’s effect area. Due
to the nature of how this effect works, manipulation spells cannot
be used in this manner.

Attacking through a focus is a two-step procedure. First come
the tests to attack and resist the spell. If the defender fails to resist,
the effects of the attack are then resolved.

The attacking magician rolls anumber of dice equal to the Force
Rating of the spell against a target number equal to the rating of the
focus. At the same time the defender rolls a number of dice equal
to the rating of the focus against a target number equal to the Force
of the spell. The side that generates more successes defeats the
other. If the spell wins, the spell focus bonding is broken. This
renders the focus useless, and the spell grounds into the physical
material of the focus. If the focus wins, the attacking spell does not
ground into it, and dissipates.

Remember that the attacking spell must be a physical spell to
work in this manner. If the spell is not an area-effect spell, it only
affects the target that is either in possession of the focus or else
directly connected to it. Resolve the spell effects normally using the
Casting Spells rules, p. 129.

If the spell is an area-effect spell, the only difference from
resolving it in the normal manner is that line-of-sight is determined
from the spellcaster’s position in astral space. The requirement still
holds that the spellcaster must be able to see the target. Remember
also that astral space is special terrain. See Astral Space, p. 145.

 

 

 

CONJURING

Through conjuring, a magician can summon, control, and
banish different kinds of spirits. Though magicians and occultists are
still arguing about whether spirits have a separate existence of their
own or whether they spring purely from the formless energies of
astral space at the time of conjuring, it does not much matter for all
practical purposes.

There are many kinds of spirits, each with a Force Rating
assigned by the conjuring magician. The Force Rating determines
not only the spirit’s abilities, but the difficulty of handling it. The
more powerful a spirit (the higher its Force), the more difficult it is
to summon, control, or banish.

Two types of spirits that can be summoned with relative ease are
nature spirits and elementals. Nature spirits personify the forces of the
environment, and only a shaman can summon or control them.

Elementals arise from the four hermetic elements of fire, water,
air, and earth, and only amage can summon or control them. Nature
spirits and elementals are described briefly below, but their full
abilities and descriptions appear in the Critters section, p. 224.

Though other kinds of spirits also inhabit the Sixth World, most
can only be contacted by very experienced magicians who have
Karma to burn. These will be described in future Shadowrun
products.

SUMMONING NATURE SPIRITS

A shaman can summon a nature spirit only in that spirit’s home
domain. A domain is the environment that spirit personifies: storm
spirits require open air, forest spirits heavy woods, hearth spirits an
occupied home, and so on (see Domains, below). A shaman cannot
summon a spirit from outside the spirit’s domain. A shaman could
not, forexample, summon a storm or forest spirit inside a home. A
home is the domain of the hearth spirit.

The shaman decides how powerful is the spirit to be sum-
moned. The Force of the spirit, the gauge of its power, is the target
number for the Conjuring Test. Totem modifiers and extra dice from
spirit foci also apply to this test. Note that the Magic Pool does not
assist in any Conjuring-related Tests.

Each success in the Conjuring Test represents one service that
the spirit agrees to perform for the shaman. See Nature Spirit
Services, below. If the shaman rolls no successes, no spirit comes.
The summoning of a nature spirit requires a Complex Action. A
shaman can summon only one nature spirit or have one in service
to him at one time.

Regardless of whether or not a spirit comes, the shaman must
make a Drain Resistance Test. Charisma (not Willpower) dice are
used, adjusted by totem modifiers and spirit foci, against a target
number equal to the Force Rating of the nature spirit. Consult the
Conjuring Drain Table below for the Drain associated with conjuring
a nature spirit.

Every 2 successes generated in the Drain Resistance Test
reduce the Drain by one level. If the Drain knocks the shaman
unconscious, the spirit departs.

Nature spirits vanish at sunrise and sunset, no matter what, and
regardless of whether the sun is actually visible or not. All services
end at that time. Any services left unused or unspecified by that
time are lost.

 

SHADOWRUN 139
 

CONJURING DRAIN TABLE
Spirit’s Force Rating
Less than half shaman’s Charisma

Drain Level
(L)Stun
(M)Stun
(S)Physical
(D)Physical

Shaman’s Charisma or less
Greater than shaman’s Charisma
Greater than twice shaman’s Charisma

 

Domains

As stated above, a nature spirit’s domain is the environment
that it personifies. Nature spirits only have power within their
domain. They cannot cross out of that domain, nor extend their
power from it.

Some nature spirits have domains that may seem to cross into
other domains, but it is never the case. The domain of a broad-
environment spirit is always superseded by the domain of a limited
environment spirit such as a hearth spirit. So even if an extremely
rich person had a spacious home with the air-space equivalent of an
aircraft hanger it would still be the domain of a hearth spirit and not
one of the sky spirits.

Domains are very restrictive. A city spirit can exercise search
power on the streets, squares, and plazas of a city. It cannot,
however, successfully search if it is inside an occupied building
(hearth spirit territory), a park (forest spirit), in a boat on the river
(river spirit) or on Puget Sound (ocean spirit).

Nature Spirit Services

When summoned, the nature spirit first appears in its astral
form, visible in the physical world as a slight shimmering in the air.
The more powerful the spirit, the more noticeable this effect. The
Force of the nature spirit, subtracted from 12, can be used as the
Concealability of this effect. See the Concealability rules, p. 94. The
spirit can either remain there or be instructed by the shaman to
return to its environment to await another call at a later time. The
actual summoning of a nature spirit requires a Complex Action, but
it takes only a Simple Action to call the spirit once it has been placed
on “stand-by.”

To perform a service, a nature spirit will use one of its powers
as the shaman directs. A nature spirit in its astral form, present only
in astral space, can only use those powers that directly protect or
benefit the shaman, such as concealment, guard, or movement. To
use its powers on others, a nature spirit must assume its manifest
form.

A manifest spirit can only use its powers on an individual target
or group, depending on the power. Continual use of a specific
power counts as only one service. If, however, the shaman wishes
to change the parameters of its use, say by requesting that the spirit
use concealment power on more characters than previously, this
constitutes a new service. Having a spirit use combat powers on
behalf of its summoner only counts as one service, regardless of the
number of foes involved.

See Critters, p. 228, for descriptions of nature spirits and their
powers.

 

SUMMONING ELEMENTALS

Only a mage can summon an elemental. He may summon an
elemental of any desired Force Rating, given the necessary equip-
ment and time, but the mage needs a conjuring library and a
hermetic circle (of the correct type) with ratings at least equal to the
Force of the spirit to be summoned. The rite requires special
materials, available from the local talismonger and at the cost of
1 ,000¥ per Force Rating Point of the elemental.

Each elemental also needs a source. Fire elementals arise from
a great bonfires (indoor mages, beware of sprinkler systems), a
fireplace, or a large brazier. Water elementals come from a large
pool or tub or water. (This requirement is satisfied if the hermetic
circle is near a body of water.) Air elementals need great quantities
of burning incense (watch out for smoke detectors, too). Earth
elementals need a large (man-sized) heap of earth, clay, or rock.
This requirement is satisfied if the place of working is on open
ground.

The summoning ritual takes a number of hours equal to the
elemental’s Force. At the end of this uninterrupted time the
magician makes a Conjuring Test against a target number equal to
the Force of the spirit. Use of a spirit focus can add extra dice to this
test. Note that Magic Pool dice do NOT apply to any Conjuring-
related Tests.

The number of successes from this test determines the number
of services the elemental will perform for the mage. See Elemental
Services, below. If the mage rolls no successes, no elemental
comes, but all the materials purchased for the rite are used up.
Regardless of whether the spirit comes or not, the mage must make
a Drain Resistance Test of Charisma dice against a target number
equal to the Force Rating of the elemental. Use of a spirit focus can
add extra dice to this test. See the Conjuring Drain Table, above, to
determine the Drain. Every 2 successes from the Drain Resistance
Test reduce the Drain Code by one level. If Drain knocks the mage
unconscious, the spirit escapes free and uncontrolled. Make a test
of its Force against a Target Number 4 to determine if the elemental
attacks the summoning mage. If the spirit generates at least 1
success, it realizes the opportunity it has and flees immediately. In
the case of no successes, the elemental acts like the dim-brain it is
and attempts to attack the summoning mage, regardless of any
protection or defenses that may be present.

A mage can bind, at any one time, a number of elementals
equal to his Charisma. If the mage is at the limit and wishes to
conjure an additional elemental, he can release one of the currently
bound ones. That spirit simply departs.

Elemental Services

An elemental that owes services to a mage is considered
bound to that mage, but the mage need not use all the elemental’s
services at one time. At the time of its summoning, the elemental
is bound and effectively placed on notice to respond to calls from
the mage. The elemental then departs, through astral space, for
parts unknown. There it remains until called to serve.

To use the services of an elemental, the mage must spend a
Complex Action to command the spirit to appear. The elemental
then appears in its astral form, which is visible in the physical world
as a slight shimmering in the air. The more powerful the spirit, the
more noticeable the effect. The Force of the elemental, subtracted

 

140 SHADOWRUN
 

a ACA? ox wet

oR iV)

 

from 8, can be used as the Concealability for this effect. See the
Concealability rules, p. 94.

The services (and therefore powers) of an elemental are not
available to the mage until the spirit has been called and appears.
To determine if the spirit may act during that Combat Tum, resolve
its Initiative (see p. 79). If it is eligible for any Action Phases in the
rest of that Combat Tur, it may act, assuming that the mage who
commands itis eligible. Calling an elemental to service does not use
up a service, but it is an exclusive activity so the mage cannot be
sustaining any spells at the time of the calling.

An elemental stays in astral space by preference. It will only
assume its manifest form if so ordered by its master. It may not be
happy about having to comply, but the spirit must do so. Ifa period
of twenty-four hours passes during which the elemental is just
hanging around, or even if it is performing a service, this uses up an
additional service.

With the exception of remote service (see below), the elemen-
tal must remain within line-of-sight of the mage. The use of astral
senses, clairvoyance spells, or other magical senses fulfill this
requirement, but electronic viewing does not. A mage cannot
“remote-control” an elemental using a trideo camera or system.

The magician who summoned the elemental can order the
spirit to obey another character, whether magician or mundane.
Mundanes cannot use elementals to cast spells, but they otherwise
receive the same services as a mage: defensive aid, sorcery,
physical service, and so on. Elemental bodyguards are rare, but they
do sometimes protect politicians, corporate execs, yakuza oyabun,
and other big noises.

 

 

 

There are five types of services that an elemental can perform:
aid sorcery, aid study, spell sustaining, physical service, and remote
service. Each of these costs one of the elemental’s services to
initiate. Sending an elemental away to wherever elementals go,
and placing it on notice for calling at a later time does not cost a
service. If not ordered away, an elemental will simply hang around,
being noticeable in physical and astral space. (It is considered very
unwise to wander about followed by a pack of elementals, unless
one welcomes trouble.)

Once an elemental has been called and has arrived, it takes
only aSimple Action to command it to perform a service. Elementals
can only perform one service at time.

Ald Sorcery

An elemental can give the mage extra dice for casting spells.
The elemental acts like an auxiliary Magic Pool of dice the magician
can use at any time until the spirit is used up and disappears. Each
point of Force bestows one die. These dice do not refresh, but they
may be used to augment any test at any stage in sorcery, including
Spell Defense, p. 132, though they must be allocated at the same
time and in the same manner as Magic Pool dice.

Each type of elemental can only help with one category of
spells.

Fire elementals aid combat spells only.

Water elementals aid illusion spells only.

Air elementals aid detection spells only.

Earth elementals aid manipulation spells only.

No elemental can aid health spells.

If an elemental is used in this manner, its Force is reduced by
1 for each die used for Aid Sorcery. When the spirit’s Force is
reduced to O through use, it vanishes. It can be called again if it is
still bound. Doing so requires another Complex Action, and in this
case costs one service. The elemental is, however, back at full Force
Rating when it arrives.

An elemental may remain in its astral form and provide this
service.

Aid Study

An elemental can provide extra dice to help its master learn
new spells. For the spirit to add its Force in dice to the mage’s
learning attempt costs a service. See Leaning A New Spell, p. 1 32.
The elemental can only help with a spell within its appropriate
category: fire for combat, water for illusion, air for detection, and
earth for manipulation. A mage may only use one spirit, one time,
for learning a particular spell.

An elemental may remain in its astral form and provide this
service.

Physical Service

The mage can call upon an elemental to manifest and use its
powers to some end. A fire elemental could be called to burn
through a door, for example, or an earth elemental to move a great
weight, or any kind of elemental to fight some enemy. See the
Critters chapter for a discussion of elemental powers, also the Spirit
Combat section in this chapter.

Physical service always requires the elemental to assume its
manifest form.

 

SHADOWRUN 141
Spell Sustaining

A mage can call upon an elemental to use its Force to sustain
one spell in the appropriate category. The elemental can maintain
the spell for one Combat Turn for each point of Force it has. Once
its Force reaches 0, it disappears. To keep the spell from vanishing
with the spirit, the mage can take over the spell maintenance before
the spirit goes. Spirits depleted in this manner may be re-called in
a manner identical to that of aid sorcery service.

A mage can also bind an elemental to a spell to maintain it for
longer periods. Doing so, however, irrevocably depletes the
elemental’s Force. The elemental can maintain the spell for a
number of days equal to its Force. Each day, or part thereof, that
passes will permanently reduce the spirit’s Force by 1 point. When
the spirit’s Force hits O, it is destroyed and disappears, even though
it may still owe additional services. The mage can release the spirit
before it runs out of Force in order to end the spell ahead of
schedule, but the spirit is still freed of its bond and disappears and
cannot be re-called.

Ifa spirit is banished while sustaining a spell, the spell ends. Once
an elemental has been commanded to the service of sustaining a
spell, it cannot perform any other service until this service is ended.

An elemental may provide this service while in its astral form.

Remote Service

A mage can command a remote service of an elemental when
it is first summoned. If the mage wishes to use the elemental for
remote service, the spirit cannot be bound. Because remote service
must be commanded immediately following a summoning, the
command forfeits extra successes and other services. Elementals
on remote service do count toward the mage’s Charisma limit.

In remote service, the mage sends the spirit off to perform a
particular job such as physical service. Once it has its orders, the
elemental will pursue them single-mindedly until it either accom-
plishes the task or is banished or destroyed. Even the summoning
mage cannot halt an elemental once it has been set loose.

An elemental may perform a remote service in either manifest
or astral form, and may switch between the two at will (costing a
Simple Action), as needed.

SPIRIT FORMS
Nature spirits and elementals can assume either astral or mani-
fest form. Changing between the two costs the spirit a Simple Action.

Astral Form

In astral form, the spirit exists entirely within astral space,
though it may be noticeable as a slight shimmering in the air. See
the preceding sections for information on noticing this effect. While
in astral form, spirits can only perform services that directly affect
the summoning magician or targets that have a valid astral pres-
ence (see Astral Space, p. 145). Spirit powers can “ground” like
spells through the target’s physical body. See Attacking Through
a Focus, p. 139, and Astral Combat, p. 147.

A spirit in astral form can communicate with its summoner, or
be sensed by magicians using astral perception or projection. While
the spirit is in this form, physical weapons cannot harm it. Weapon
foci that have an image (an existence) in astral space can harm a

 

 

 

spirit in astral form, but the wielder must be using astral perception
or projection to use it properly. The “shimmering air effect” cannot
be attacked by a weapon focus or be targeted by spells. Spirits can
be attacked by banishing (again the magician must be actually
seeing them) or by astral combat.

Manifest Form

Spirits assume manifest form when they must use a power
against a target that has only a physical presence and is not present
in astral space. Spirits dislike manifest form because it makes them
vulnerable to physical attacks.

Even so, it is very difficult for non-magicians to attack and
damage a manifest spirit. Only the truly courageous, driven, or mad
can focus enough will to make an attack that will affect the spirit.

When attacking a spirit in manifest form using a mundane
(non-magical) weapon to strike or shoot, the character uses Will-
power instead of the normal Combat Skill. Against spirit foes,
unshakable will is more important than weapon skill. The attacker
may not add Combat or Magic Pool dice to this test. Attacks using
weapon foci, other magical or spell attacks, or attacks using a spirit’s
vulnerability use the proper Combat Skill dice and may be aug-
mented by Combat Pool dice.

Additionally, manifest spirits have the power of immunity
against firearm attacks, ranged (excluding bows and throwing
weapons) weapons, and explosions. These are, technically, indirect
attacks because they are not “powered” by the attacker and do not
carry the full weight of the attacker's will. In this circumstance,
spirits have twice their Force as armor of the appropriate type
(impact or ballistic). Damage is resolved normally. Spirits do not,
however, have this power against melee attacks, bows (except
crossbows), and throwing weapons, as there seems to be nothing
to attenuate the effects of the attacker’s courage.

A spirit in manifest form can use its powers against any target
in its line-of-sight. Each use is a separate service, unless it is an
attack against a group of foes. Such an attack constitutes a single
service, regardless of the number of foes.

Spirit Initiative

Being creatures of quicksilver and shadow, spirits move with
great speed compared to bags of mud and blood like humans.

Spirits in astral form have a base Reaction as indicated for the
spirit type, plus 20. They roll 1 Initiative die (1 D6). Spirits in manifest
form also have the base Reaction as indicated for the spirit type, but
this time it is plus 10. They roll 1 Initiative die (1D6). Spirits follow
the normal Combat Turn procedures and are eligible for multiple
actions (see p. 79).

Spirits determine their Initiative based on the form they
currently inhabit. If, sometime during the Combat Turn, a spirit in
astral form changes to manifest form, it resolves the rest ofits action
at that time, but it is ineligible for another action for 20 Phases (the
normal 10, plus the +10 Initiative bonus for astral form). Spirits in
manifest form that switch to astral form receive no Initiative
modifier unless they are in that form at the beginning of the next
Combat Turn.

Spirits can only receive new commands on their summoner’s
actions. They can Delay actions while waiting for those commands.

 

142 SHADOWRUN
SPIRIT COMBAT

Spirits generally obey the same combat rules as regular char-
acters. Individual powers will vary the number of base dice used in
the attack, what the Target Number is, and whether there is a
Damage or Spell Resistance Test involved. Consult the individual
power descriptions in the Critters section for more information.

Spirits may also directly oppose each other. This is done as a
Force against Force contest: each spirit uses its Force dice against a
Target Number equal to the opposing spirit’s Force. The spirit that
generates the greater number of successes reduces the other
spirit’s Force by the difference in their successes.

A Force 4 fire elemental and a Force 3 water elemen-
tal are duking it out. That means a roll of 4 dice against a
Target Number 3 for the fire elemental. For the water
elemental, roll 3 dice against a Target Number 4.

In addition to a lot of steam, the result is that the fire
elemental generates 3 successes, but the water elemental
only gets 1 success. The water elemental’s Force is then
reduced by 2 (3 - 1).

A spirit whose Force is reduced to 0 through combat is destroyed
and cannot be re-called. Spirits must be within one meter of each
other to fight. Direct Force against Force fights require a Complex
Action from the spirit. The fight costs one service, but may be
continued without additional service costs until one spirit is defeated.

Nature spirits may oppose each other within a domain. Reso-
lution of these conflicts of powers (say, accident power against
guard power) is simple: the spirit with the greater Force wins. The
power takes effect at a Force Rating equal to the difference between
the spirits. Ties result in no effect.

Against damage-causing powers or damage-causing weap-
ons, the normal combat damage rules apply. Consult the Spirit
Table at the end of this chapter to find the spirit’s equivalent of the
appropriate attributes. Spirits have normal Condition Monitors for
tracking such damage.

When attacked by a spirit, a magician has the option of using
the Conjuring Skill in place of the normally appropriate resisting
attribute (such as Body or Willpower). This is because the skill
includes numerous traditional charms used over the centuries to
tum away the malice of such beings.

CONTROL CONTESTS

Two magicians can contest control of a spirit. Only a shaman
can try to take over a nature spirit; only a mage can try to take over
an elemental.

The magician trying to take control declares the attempt as a
Complex Action. The magician controlling the spirit may resist,
regardless of whether he has actions available at that moment. The
challenger makes a Conjuring Test against a target number equal to
the spirit’s Force + 2. The controlling magician also makes a
Conjuring Test against the Force of the spirit, but with no modifiers.
Both magicians may use additional dice from totem modifiers or
spirit foci, though this will reduce the number of dice immediately
available from the focus.

 

Ifthe controlling magician rolls more successes, nothing changes,
and the challenging magician must make a Drain Resistance Test as
if he had actually conjured the spirit. If the challenger wins and gets
control of the spirit, both magicians must make Drain Resistance
Tests. If neither rolls any successes, both attempt to resist Drain, and
the spirit goes uncontrolled. The Drain Resistance Test is always made
as if that character had just summoned the spirit.

If the magician that won the contest is knocked out by the
Drain, the spirit goes uncontrolled.

Commanding an Uncontrolled Spirit

Should a magician with Conjuring Skill encounter an uncon-
trolled spirit, he can attempt to gain control over it. He makes and
resolves a test identical to that for banishing a spirit. (See below.)
If the magician is successful, the spirit is controlled. For this test roll
Conjuring dice against a target number equal to the spirit’s Force.
Spirit foci and totem modifiers apply. Every 2 successes result in the
spirit owing one service.

BANISHING

Banishing requires great concentration, and uses the Conjuring
Skill as if the magician were casting an exclusive spell (p. 133). The
magician can sustain no other spells, nor take any other actions
while trying to banish a spirit. The task also requires a Complex
Action.

A magician of either tradition may banish a spirit of any type.
To banish a spirit, see the sequence of steps outlined below.

The process is repeated until one participant overcomes the
other (dropping Force or Magic to 0), or the winner of a round
decides to break off the contest. If the spirit’s Force reaches 0, it is
utterly destroyed. If the magician’s Magic Rating drops to O, the
character passes out, and the spirit is free to go its way. Generally,
when a spirit decides to break off a contest, it will flee. Circum-
stances may indicate different actions, however.

Lost rating points, Magic or Force, are regained at a rate of 1

point per hour.

A. Make Magician’s Conjuring Test

Roll Conjuring dice against a target number equal to the spirit’s
Force Rating. If the magician is the one who summoned the spirit,
he may add Charisma dice to this test. Spirit foci and totem
modifiers apply. Count the successes.

B. Make Spirit’s Force Test
Roll Force dice against a target number equal to the magician’s
Magic Rating. Count the successes.

C. Determine Effect

Compare the successes. If the spirit generates more successes,
the magician’s Magic Rating is reduced by 1 for every 2 successes
beyond the magician’s total successes. If the magician rolls more
successes, reduce the spirit’s Force by the same ratio.

D. Continue Contest

The winner decides whether there will be another round. If so,
neither combatant may do anything else until the winner’s next
action: they are locked in magical combat.

 

SHADOWRUN 143
SPIRIT TABLE
In these listings, ‘F’ refers to the spirit’s Force, and ‘A’ under Essence indicates that the spirit exists primarily in astral space.

ELEMENTALS B Q S Cc Ww E R
Air F-2 (F+3)x4 F-3 F F (FA F+2
Attacks: Per Powers

Powers: Engulf, Manifestation, Movement, Noxious Breath, Psychokinesis

Weaknesses: Confinement, Vulnerability (Earth)

Earth F+4 (F—2)x2 F+4 F
Attacks: (F)S as Unarmed Combat (Skill = Reaction); +1 Reach
Powers: Engulf, Manifestation, Movement

Weaknesses: Vulnerability (Air)

Fire F+1 (F+2)x3 F-2 r F F (F)A
Attacks: (F)M as Ranged Combat (Skill = Reaction); Range = Force x 2 meters
Powers: Engulf, Flame Aura, Flame Projection, Guard, Manifestation, Movement
Weaknesses: Vulnerability (Water)

Water F+ 2 PxZ F
Attacks: (F)S Stun as Unarmed Combat (Skill = Force)
Powers: Engulf, Manifestation, Movement
Weaknesses: Vulnerability (Fire)

Nature Spirits B Q S Cc I Ww E R

OF MAN F+I (F+2)x3 F-2 F F F (FA F+t

City Spirit Powers: Accident, Alienation, Concealment, Confusion, Fear, Guard, Search
Domain: Streets, plazas, alleys, open areas, and abandoned buildings of a city.

Hearth Spirit Powers: Accident, Alienation, Concealment, Confusion, Guard, Search
Domain: Homes, residences, occupied buildings.

Field Spirit Powers: Accident, Concealment, Guard, Search
Domain: Cultivated, worked fields and growing areas.

OF THE LAND F+4 (F—2)x2 F+4 E F

Desert Spirit Powers: Concealment, Guard, Movement, Search
Domain: Open desert.

Forest Spirit Powers: Accident, Concealment, Confusion, Fear, Guard
Domain: Forests, as well as decent-sized parks.

Mountain Spirit Powers: Accident, Concealment, Guard, Movement, Search
Domain: Rugged mountain terrain.

Prairie Spirit Powers: Accident, Alienation, Concealment, Guard, Movement, Search
Domain: Open land, uncultivated fields, tundra.

OF THE SKY F-2 (F+3)x4 F-3 F F F (F)A

Mist Spirit Powers: Accident, Concealment, Confusion, Guard, Movement
Domain: Mist, fog, rain.

Storm Spirit Powers: Concealment, Confusion, Electrical Projection, Fear
Domain: Thunderstorms, hurricanes, tornadoes, violent storms.

OF THE WATERS” F +2 Fx 2 F F F (F)A

Lake Spirit Powers: Accident, Engulf, Fear, Guard, Movement, Search
Domain: Open lake water.

River Spirit Powers: Accident, Concealment, Engulf, Fear, Guard, Movement, Search
Domain: Rivers, large streams, river deltas (when not swampy), inlets and outlets.

Sea Spirit Powers: Accident, Alienation, Concealment, Confusion, Engulf, Fear, Guard, Movement, Search
Domain: The open sea.

Swamp Spirit Powers: Accident, Binding, Concealment, Confusion, Engulf, Fear, Guard, Movement, Search
Domain: Swamps, marshes.

 

144 SHADOWRUN
 

ASTRAL SPACE

Astral space, or the astral plane, is a parallel dimension that
coexists with the physical world. It is both the source of magical
energy, and the medium through which it travels. Though astral and
physical space are vastly different, the two share the common
dimension of time. Everything that exists on physical Earth also has
an astral counterpart, though the laws of physics do not apply to the
astral plane.

Magical things (spirits, foci, spells, some magical creatures,
ritual teams, magicians using astral projection or perception, and so
on) are living entities in astral space. They are visible, corporeal, and
capable of action while there. Beings in astral space can see physical
objects and assense magical energy given off by the astral forms of
all living things. Assensing is the sixth sense that allows perception
of magical energy and astral forms.

Non-magical living things have a dormant astral form, an aura
that is visible and corporeal in astral space but that does not act on
other astral forms. The Earth is a living thing in magical terms, and
thus corporeal in astral space. It is not possible to pass through
things that are alive, no matter at what level, in astral space.
Vegetation, for example, blocks movement just as it does in the
physical world. Water, air, and fire are also tangible in astral space,
but astral beings can pass through these elements because of their
low density. Water and fire do no harm to the astral traveler, but do
reduce the range of assensing.

Inanimate objects are visible because of reflected light, and
block the passage of magical energy and emotions, two primary
elements of the astral form, or aura. Because such objects block the
flow of the aura, astral beings cannot assense through them. These
objects possess no aura or astral form of their own, however, and
so astral beings can freely pass through the astral position corre-
sponding to the object’s physical space. In astral space, one cannot
see or assense through a wall, though it is a simple matter to walk
right through it. Transparent objects retain that quality, however.

Lit by radiant life energy, astral space is usually bright no matter
what the time of day on the physical plane. Certain places, however,
that are devoid or lacking in living material (within a bare concrete
room, for example) may actually be dim or dark, imposing visibility
modifiers similar to those that occur in normal visibility. See
Visibility Impaired, p. 89.

Astral space pulses with the primal energies of life. Artificial
symbols, objects of the intellect, are not directly perceptible in astral
space. Someone examining the astral counterpart of this or any
book would find that he or she could not read the words them-
selves, but that they could vividly sense the emotions (overwhelm-
ing, aren’t they?) of each passage. Books of poetry, for example, are
rewarding when assensed astrally. Technical manuals are virtually
blank. Scanning a computer screen in astral space would not reveal
the informational content, but would impart the emotional context
of the file—that is, whether it was public or secret data, legal or
illegal, personal, technical, or business-oriented.

Neither street signs nor even maps can be read from astral
space, so an astral traveler had better know where he is going
before he sets out.

 

 

All things reveal their true forms and natures when viewed in
astral space. Auras do not lie, and they are unique. Disguises,
whether physical or magical, simply do not work astrally. A shape
changed elf retains his original aura, regardless of the final form.

ASTRAL PERCEPTION

Any magician can perceive astral space (with the exception of
certain adepts), but he or she must make a Simple Action to switch
from normal senses to astral senses and back again. When perceiv-
ing astrally, the magician’s senses are focused on the astral plane.
Purely physical things are visible only by their astral echo, making
interaction with the physical world very difficult. If an astrally
perceiving magician attempts a task based solely in the physical
world, an additional +2 target modifier applies to any tests.

When viewing within astral space, an astrally perceiving
character can:

*assense anything that is actually there

*assense the magical energy surrounding an item

sassense a ritual sorcery sending

sassense a being’s aura to determine its true nature

The magician can assense all spirits, magical creatures, and so
on, whether they are visible in the physical world or not. If the
magician has a spell that affects astral space, it may be cast. See
Spells and Astral Space, p. | 49. The magician is also vulnerable to
astral combat, p. 147.

Because the character is only perceiving astrally, he is still
limited by the constraints of his body. The character can touch and
be touched by other astrally active things, but he cannot reach
through a wall to touch an astral object, because the physical arm
cannot penetrate the physical wall, even though the astral arm has
no such restrictions.

The magician can assense magical energy surrounding any-
thing that is itself magical or that is being affected by magic:
enchanted items, characters under the effect of spells, magicians
casting or maintaining spells, and so forth. He can assense spells,
foci, and other magical items as living beings.

The magician can detect the sending of ritual sorcery. An
assensable web of energies leads back toward the source of the
spell, allowing the magician to trace it using astral projection (see
Astral Tracking, p. 149). Spells being sustained through ritual
sorcery and spell locks also display such a trace, leading back to the
spellcaster(s).

Astral perception allows the magician to view the aura of any
living or magical thing, which will reveal to him the true form or
nature of the being. A shapeshifter always shows its animal form in
astral space, for example. A character under a disguising spell
would also show his or her true form. The spell’s aura (visible
independently or surrounding the thing it affects) identifies it as
being of sorcery. Foci are visible as such. The auras of living beings
also reveal their general state of health, wounds, diseases, active
drugs in the system, and so on. The magician can also assense the
Essence and Magic Attributes of living beings. The gamemaster
should not reveal actual numbers, but instead inform the magician
if the score is higher, lower, or about the same in comparison to the
magician’s own. The aura of a magician shows both Magic and
Essence, thus revealing the magician’s nature.

 

SHADOWRUN 145
WS

The magician can gain further information about magical things
by making a various Tests. Sorcery Skill would divine the nature of
a spell. Conjuring or Sorcery Skills, respectively, would reveal the
Force and Magic Ratings of spirits or enchanted items. Use anumber
equal to the spell creator's Sorcery Skill, a spirit’s Force, amagician’s
Magic Attribute, or 5, ifno target number can easily be determined.
The number of successes controls the amount of information
revealed.

The magician can make additional rolls to try to get more
information, up to a maximum equal to his skill. Each additional
attempt adds +2 to the target number.

The act of astrally perceiving opens the magician’s own aura to
astral space, making it vulnerable to attack. As stated previously,
astrally perceiving characters are vulnerable to astral combat. They
can also be directly affected by mana spells, and physical spells can
be cast to ground-out through them. See Spells and Astral Space,
p. 149.

ASTRAL EXAMINATION
Result
No result; nothing learned.
The general class is learned (fire elemental,
manipulation spell, combat spell focus, and

so on).

Exact spell, spirit’s Force Rating or Focus
Rating higher or lower than magician’s
Magic Rating.

Spell, spirit’s Force Rating or Focus Rating
learned.

ASTRAL PROJECTION

The next step beyond astral perception is actual projection, in
which the magician’s aura “separates” from his body and is able to
move about freely and independently for some time.

Any magician can use astral projection by sinking into a trance.
While in this trance, the magician’s body is dead to the world; his
pulse and respiration are almost nil, and his senses are turned off.
In magical terms, the magician “leaves his body” to travel in astral
space. Until the aura returns, the physical body is comatose.

The magician’s astral form has Attributes based on his At-
tributes in the physical world, as follows:

Astral Strength is Charisma

-Astral Quickness is Intelligence
-Astral Body is Willpower

Astral Reaction is twice Intelligence

The magician’s Mental Attributes and Magic and Essence
Ratings do not change.

The magician’s astral form appears as an idealized self-image.
Of course, the idealized self-image of an ork shaman or a coldly
murderous corporate hit mage can be a pretty scary assensement.

Astral images of the magician’s fetishes and magical items
accompany the journey. Non-magical gear stays with the comatose
body in the physical world. Simply by willing it to be so, the astral
magician can form any garments or ornaments desired, but such
things have no magical or armor value. It is just razzle-dazzle.

 

 

Tweezil glanced with the obnoxious pity of youth at
the frail figure of his master before he entered into his own
trance. As astral space enveloped him, a voice from
behind boomed, “What kept you, boy?” Tweezil whirled
and stared at a vibrant figure, powerfully muscled, robed
in garments oflight. He bore a familiar broadsword and his
hands lightly held a staff Tweezil had assensed before. “B-
b-boss?”

“You young snots never figure it out, do you?” the
mage said with a laugh. “Over on this side, you are what
you will, not what you think! Now follow me. We've got
work to do.”

Astral Movement

Movement through the landscape of astral space proceeds at
normal rate or fast rate. Normal movement is Astral Quickness
multiplied by 4. This is the number of meters traveled per Action
Phase. There is no danger of fatigue. Characters use this rate when
they need to pay attention to the surroundings.

Fast movement is fast indeed! The magician character can
move at his Magic Rating in kilometers per action (roughly Magic
x 1,000 km per hour). At this speed, the magician’s surroundings
are a blur. The character knows where he is and can dodge astral
obstacles, but he cannot assense or see the scene in detail without
slowing to normal movement. Combat can occur between two
characters who are both using fast movement.

At either speed, the magician can fly, that is, can move freely
to any altitude, up to the limits of the atmosphere. Do not leave the
atmosphere (80 kilometers). Magicians who have tried to break this
barrier have usually died or gone mad, and the memories of those
who survived the journey have been badly scrambled by some kind
of profound mental trauma.

Effects of Astral Projection

The longer a magician is in astral space, the weaker becomes
the physical form. Because the magician has taken his Essence into
astral space, the body begins to die.

The physical body loses 1 point of Essence for every hour the
magician is astrally gallivanting. If the Essence falls below O, the
magician dies. The magician’s astral form has its full Essence and
Magic Ratings even though the physical body is withering. Once
the magician returns to the body, the Essence returns at a rate of 1
point per minute, up to the original rating.

While in astral space, the magician is unaware of the environ-
ment of his physical body unless it can be seen. If someone, or some
thing, moves the body while the magician’s aura is gone, the
magician will not know it until he comes back, to find that his
physical shell is not where he left it. This sends the character on a
search for his body, which he carries out by making a test of his Body
or Willpower Rating, whichever is higher, against a Target Number
4. The search lasts a base time of 6 hours, divided by the number
of successes. At the end of that period, assuming the magician has
not run out of Essence, he will discover the location of the body. Of
course, if it was enemies that moved it, the magician may find astral
opponents still blocking the way back home.

 

146 SHADOWRUN
WALLS

A magician’s enemies could simply kill the physical body.
Almost any wound to the comatose form will drive it into fatal
shock. A magician in astral space knows at once if his body dies. The
astral form survives until its Essence is used up, at which point it
evaporates. Such a wretch may decide to spend his remaining
hours seeking vengeance, and the gamemaster can use such no-
bodies as ghosts.

ASTRAL COMBAT

Any magical thing or being with a presence in astral space can
engage in astral combat. Things that do not have an active astral
presence cannot fight or be hurt in any way in astral space. That
means mundane characters (those with no Magic Rating) are
immune to direct effects from astral space. It is not possible to make
astral ambushes into the physical world, unless the ambusher can
find some sort of bridge. See Spells and Astral Space, p. 149.

Astral combat works exactly like Melee Combat (p. 100),
because the nature of astral space prevents ranged attacks. Move-
ment, cover, and so forth have the same effect in astral space as in
physical space, with the differences noted above. A magician can
attack other astral forms, suffering no penalties for “movement.”

In astral space, a spell is a living thing. When viewed from astral
space, the casting of a spell reveals the formation of a living shape
around the caster, which charges toward the target at high speed
when released. Reaching the target, it vanishes, exiting into real
space, where it releases its power. Even manipulation spells that
traverse the distance in normal space behave this way.

The procedure for astral combat varies slightly with each type
of astral form.

Astral Initiative

Characters in astral space have a modified Astral Reaction
equal to their calculated Astral Reaction +15. They roll 1 Initiative
die (1D6). Characters who begin a Combat Tum in their physical
bodies and then begin astral projection (a Complex Action) stay
with their physical-body Initiative for the turn. If they begin the
Combat Turn astrally projecting, and then retum to their physical
bodies (a Complex Action), they are ineligible for another action for
20 phases.

Initiative for spirits is described under Spirit Initiative, p. 142.

Characters who are only astrally perceiving (p. 145) are limited
to their physical Reaction and Initiative.

Resolving Astral Combat

Magicians in astral space function with their normal Mental and
Special Attributes, but have their Astral “Physical” Attributes. For all
actions in astral space (dodging, fighting, reducing damage),
magicians have only one dice pool, the Astral Pool, which is the
equal to the sum of the magician’s Intelligence, Willpower, and
Charisma, divided by 2 (round down). This Astral Combat Pool
works like the physical Combat Pool in that it can be applied to astral
combat, but not to the casting of magic spells in astral space. The
normal Magic Pool may be applied to spells cast in astral space.

Actual attacks are like melee combat (see p. 100). Ifarmed with
an active weapon focus, the magician may attack using Armed
Combat Skill. Ifnot, he uses Unarmed Combat Skill or, alternatively,
Sorcery Skill in place of either of the other two. Even characters who

 

 

cannot cast spells can use Sorcery Skill for astral combat. It is for this
reason that physical adepts and others study sorcery. The Target
Number for an astral attack is 4. A character's astral Damage Code
is based on the nature of the attack and the attacker. See the Astral
Attack Table.

ASTRAL ATTACK TABLE

Damage Code
(Astral Strength)L
(Astral Strength +
Focus Rating/2)M
Dual-natured beings See p. 148

Spells (Force)Drain Level
Spirit (Force)M

Barriers (Rating)L

Attack Type
Unarmed human magician
Armed attack (w/weapon focus)

Make the Damage Resistance Test using the Astral Body
Rating. Dual-natured beings (see Magical Creatures below, and
Critters, p. 214) that have physical armor receive the benefits of
that armor in astral space. As with normal armor, the target's armor
reduces the Power of the attack. (See Critter Statistics, p. 232, for
a listing of dual-natured beings and their armor, if any.)

Astral damage can be Physical or Stun at the choice of the
character inflicting it. Non-sentient astral entities such as barriers and
foci always do Physical damage when attacked (they don’t know any
better). Similarly, they can only be affected by Physical damage.

Note that a physical adept is able to use killing hands ability to
full effect on the astral plane. Remember also that physical adepts
can only astrally perceive; they cannot project.

Because of the occult phenomenon of “repercussion,” the
physical body manifests the damage. That means that if a magician
is wounded in astral space, the physical body is wounded at the
same moment. If killed, the astral and physical bodies die at the
same moment. Healing techniques used on one body also heal the
other, whether the healing is magical or mundane.

Barriers

Hermetic circles and medicine lodges act as barriers in astral
space. To pass through a barrier, a magician must destroy its
resistance. The barrier remains intact against all other intruders.
Spells cast at targets inside such barriers must penetrate the barrier
before they can manage to attack their targets. The creator of the
barrier will know whenever someone is attacking it.

A barrier will resist an intrusion attempt, but it will not persist
in fighting an intruder who drops the attempt. To pass through the
barrier the magician rolls the appropriate attack dice (Armed or
Unarmed Combat or Sorcery Skill) against a target number equal to
the rating of the barrier. At the same time, the Barrier’s Rating in dice
is rolled against a target number equal to the Magic Rating of the
magician.

If the magician rolls more successes than the barrier, the barrier
is reduced by the net successes. If the barrier prevails, it causes the
same damage as would an opposing magician. It has a Damage
Code of (Force)L, which increases by one level for every 2 suc-
cesses. The magician may resist this damage with Astral Body dice

 

SHADOWRUN 147
MAGIC

against a target number of the Barrier Rating just as for a normal
Damage Resistance Test. If and when the barrier’s rating is reduced
to 0, it collapses and the magician can pass through. If the fight ends
prematurely, the barrier’s rating is permanently reduced.

The above applies only against attacks originating in astral
space. If the attack originates in physical space, the barrier’s normal
effect applies. See Manipulation Spells, p. 156.

Magical Items
Like barriers, magical items fight only if attacked.
When “destroyed,” a magical item loses its en-
chantment, but its physical form rarely changes.
It will, however, probably show some evi-
dence of the loss of the enchantment, such
as alessening ofits quality or appearance.
The item’s Force Rating serves as its
attack dice in the original Success Test.
Remember, a spell lock has only
aForce of 1 (the Karma spent to bond
it), regardless of the power of the
spell it holds. Attacks are made
against the lock, not against the

spell.

Magical Creatures

The two types of magical
creatures are dual beings and as-
tral beings.

Dual beings exist on both
planes all the time. They have the
same Attribute and Ability Ratings
on both planes. Astral beings live in
astral space, and most have the abil-
ity, but not the inclination, to manifest
themselves in the physical world.

Dual beings must move on both
planes simultaneously, as must astral be-
ings when they manifest in the physical world.

They cannot be in one place in the physical and
another in astral space. Thus, they are limited to
their physical-plane rate of speed and Initiative.

Combat with magical creatures follows the general
rules for the environment, physical or astral, where the battle is
taking place. Dual beings have the same Attributes regardless of
where the fight takes place. In astral space, purely astral beings have
all Attributes equal to their Force or Essence.

Ritual Teams

Magicians engaged in a ritual sorcery team are present in astral
space during the sending or when they are sustaining a ritual spell.
The hermetic circle or medicine lodge acts as a barrier in astral space,
but all team members except the leader may sortie outside the barrier
to engage astral attackers. Though they cannot cast spells from inside
the barrier, they can do so freely outside the barrier. Ifa team member
dies or loses consciousness, reduce the Magic Pool for the ritual by
the appropriate amount. If this reduces the pool to O or if the leader
loses consciousness, the ritual aborts and each remaining member of

 

 

the team makes a Drain Resistance Test. Those outside the circle or
lodge take the Drain as Physical damage.

Spells

A spell uses its Force Rating for all tests in any contest with a
magician in astral space. Although the caster of the spell may be in
the physical world, he knows the spell is being attacked. He can

allocate dice from the Magic Pool and from any foci or totem
modifiers he has for that spell to help the spell survive.
A spell is mindless. If unopposed, it will ignore
any other astral forms and proceed to its target,
arriving there in the same action as its creation.
If blocked, the spell will fight. In order to
intercepta spell, an astrally projecting char-
acter must be aware of the spellcasting
and have a Delayed Action. An astrally
perceiving character cannot move his
physical form fast enough to inter-
cept the spell.

Fighting a spell works like fight-
ing a barrier. See Barriers, above. If
the magician wins, the spell’s Force

is reduced. If the spell (really the
casting magician) wins, the magi-
cian takes damage based on the
spell ((Force)Drain Level as the
Damage Code). The winner (the
intercepting magician or casting
magician) then decides whether to
continue. As long as one side con-
tinues the fight, the spell is “blocked”
and cannot strike the target. If the
attacking magician drops outs, or is
defeated, the spell zooms on and hits
the target. If it took any damage, how-
ever, the spell’s Force is now reduced.
Ifa magician in astral space intercepts a
spell, its caster can assist the spell, as de-
scribed above. This can continue for as long as
the magician desires, until the spell either wins the
fight oris destroyed, which cancels it out. The magician
can, on any action, decide to stop casting the spell, which
will then promptly evaporate. Other spells can be cast, (subject to
the magic rules) while that one is being supported. This is the
equivalent of sustaining a spell (+2 target modifier). The casting
magician makes a Drain Resistance Test in the action the spell was
cast, no matter what. If Drain or anything else knocks out the caster,
the spell vanishes.

A magician in astral space cannot cast a spell at another spell,
but he can cast one at any other astral being. Such a spell cannot be
intercepted, and only spells that would affect the thing or being
physically will work. A sleep spell cannot be used to damage a
magical item, but it would work against a magician in astral space.
Mana spells only affect the astral target. Physical spells ground out
and may affect others. See Spells and Astral Space, p. 149.

When a magician casts spells in astral space, Drain always
causes Physical damage, regardless of the spell’s Force Rating.

 

148 SHADOWRUN
MAGIC

ASTRAL EVASION

Given the great speeds at which astral bodies can travel (see
Astral Projection, p. 146), it is a simple matter for one astral
character to evade another. There are only a few points to consider.

A dual being, shackled to the flesh, can only move at speeds and
ways dictated by its physical form. An astrally projecting character can
break off combat with such an opponent by moving out of its reach,
dodging through a wall, or by some other similar tactic.

When both opponents can move with equal freedom, how-
ever, an Astral Evasion Test is needed to resolve any attempts to
break off combat and/or evade pursuit. Both participants roll dice,
using Astral Quickness for normal movement, or the characters’
Magic Ratings for fast movement. (Normal movement allows the
character to break off, while still remaining in the general area. Fast
movement takes the character a great distance in no time at all.) If
one of the participants chooses to let the other escape, no test is
needed. Spirits always use their Force Ratings.

The target number for this test is the opponent's Astral
Quickness, Magic Rating, or Force, as appropriate.

The opponent with the greater number of successes decides
what happens. At normal movement rates, the character can move
away from the opponent the distance his astral projection speed
would allow. At fast movement, the character can evade the
opponent completely, leaving the area. Alternatively, the winner
can maintain combat range and can attack.

ASTRAL TRACKING

It has been mentioned that ritual sendings and foci such as spell
locks maintain a thread of energy back to the spellcaster or creator.
This is true, but it is difficult to track.

Tracking such a thread requires an Astral Perception Test of
Intelligence dice rolled against a Target Number 4, modified by the
following astral tracking modifiers:

Situation Modifier
Ritual spell/focus has equal or lesser

Force/Rating than tracker’s Sorcery Skill —2
Ritual spell/focus has greater

Force/Rating than tracker’s Sorcery Skill +2

The base time for this tracking is twelve hours, divided by the
number of successes generated. Odds are that this will be longer than
the magician is able to maintain astral projection. The magician can,
however, leave off the search at some point to take a rest. At the time
the magician resumes the search, he must make an Intelligence or
Magic (whichever is higher) Test against a target number equal to the
number of hours, or part thereof, that has passed since he left off
tracking. As long as he scores at least 1 success, the search continues.
If he scores no successes, the trail is lost.

SPELLS AND ASTRAL SPACE

A little more needs to be said conceming spells and astral
space, but first, an overview of what occurs when a magician casts
aspell astrally. The sequence is slightly different from that described
previously in Ritual Sorcery, p. 133.

First, obviously, the magician chooses the spell to be cast and
chooses a target. Regardless of the nature of the spell, the target must
be within direct line-of-sight of the spellcaster. Combat spells, and

 

most others (except manipulation spells) affect only targets within the
caster’s vision. If, for example, two characters were standing within
ameter of each other, but one was blocked from the magician’s view,
only the visible character could be affected by the spell even though
the second character might be within the area-effect of the spell.

Why is this?

The reason has to do with howa spell works. As a spell is being
cast, the magician’s senses are opened up partially to the astral
plane. The magician, because of the working of the astral forces that
power the spell, is able to see the aura of the target. This allows him
to align or synchronize his aura with that of the target, permitting
the astral energy shaped by the caster to leap between them,
through astral space, much as a spark of electricity jumps between
two properly polarized points. The spell leaps from the caster,
crosses the distance to the target in astral space, and strikes.

The visual effect of this is minimal on the caster. Maybe there is
a flicker of energy as the spell goes off, but mostly not. Because the
spell is traveling between caster and target through astral space there
is no physical effect. No energy lashes out from caster to target,
though powerful spells may display the astral-echo shimmer pro-
duced by powerful spirits. The detonation of the spell on the target
is usually quite visible, if that is appropriate to the type of spell.

Back in astral space, the spell has bridged the distance and struck
the target. What happens next is that the spell grounds out into the
target through the target’s aura. This is because of the previously
stated rule that things in astral space cannot directly affect non-
magical things in the real world, unless there is a bridge. The bridge,
in this case, is momentarily created by the spellcaster when the auras
involved are synchronized. This can only be done if the caster is
physically present in physical space. This physical caster-physical
target symmetry must exist for the spell to work. If the caster were
projecting in astral space, the physical-physical symmetry would not
exist and the caster could not affect a physical target.

Getting back to the spell, upon impact its energies ground out
through the aura of the target and affect either the target’s physical
component (ifit is a physical spell) or spiritual component if the spell
is a mana spell and the target is living. Non-living things have no
spiritual component and so cannot be affected by mana spells.

The spell energy, entering from astral space through the
target's aura, now radiates outward from the center of the aura, the
center of the target’s being. This is why targets struck by physical
combat spells do not receive the benefits of armor. How can armor
offer protection against an attack from the inside?

The line-of-sight restriction is still a powerful one for these
types of spells. If the target’s aura cannot be seen, it cannot be hit.
Some frightening possibilities are circumvented because a living
aura radiates a short distance from the being: enemies in sealed
combat armor, with no part of the body showing, can still be
attacked because the aura extends past the armor. Seeing only a
piece of an aura is not enough for targeting, though, so that enemy
lurking right at the edge of the comer, with its aura leaking into view
is still safe. An astrally perceiving viewer might spot the aura, but
it is safe from targeting.

Foci and active astral perception both create bridges between
the physical world and the astral plane that can be exploited by
spelicasters in astral space. A mana spell thrown at a target with
such a dual profile, physical and astral, will only affect that target,

 

SHADOWRUN 149


even ifit is an area-effect spell. The spiritual component is contained
within the physical component, so the area-effect is dampened.
This only holds for attacks that do not have the physical-physical
symmetry requirement. A physical spell thrown by an astral caster
at a dual-natured target will ground out through the target's
physical component. The physical component of the target is of
course affected, but because of that component's adjacency to the
physical world, area-effects of certain spells continue onward. The
same requirements for line-of-sight hold for the spell’s effect as if
the spell had been cast normally from physical space: if the caster
cannot see a target, it cannot be hit. Since physical terrain is opaque
in astral space, line-of-sight can be figured as if the astral caster were
standing at the same location in physical space.

Additionally, intervening transparent obstructions, such as
glass, have no effect on the spell. Because the obstruction is
transparent, the casting mage can see the target. Were it opaque,
the caster would not be able to see the target, so no spell. Semi-
transparent obstructions afford cover modifiers (see p. 88). Because
the obstruction is non-living, the spell (in astral space) passes right
through it without impediment.

Finally, what about mirrors?

Well, mirrors are tricky, and very deadly. A target seen
reflected in a mirror is a valid target. Auras are synchronized, the
spell is released, and the spell energy follows a direct (as possible)
path to the target. No, it does not head out and reflect off the mirror,
like the image of the target. Spells are smarter than that. Mirrors do,
therefore, qualify in line-of-sight figuring. Note that manipulation
spells, as discussed below, cannot be used this way because when
they direct-line to the target, they hit the wall. Oops.

Virtually nothing else does, though. The magician must be able
to directly see the target with conventional vision. Remote-viewing
technology like cameras does not work, nor do remote-viewing

150 SHADOWRUN

 

spells like clairvoyance. The magician must use natural vision.
Cybereyes qualify though, because the character has spent Essence
points for that vision. Those eyes are, as far as the character’s being
are concerned, now natural.

Whew. Complex, eh? Welcome to Shadowrun.

Now, manipulation spells. These spells work a little differently.
Everything is the same in the casting of a manipulation spell as for
a combat spell up to the point where the spell energy is released.
The spell energy of a manipulation spell travels the distance
between the caster and the target not only in astral space (as
combat spells do) but in the physical world as well. So, visible
energy does lash out between caster and target when a manipula-
tion spell is cast.

Because the spell has a “physical” energy component, it is
impeded by transparent obstructions like glass. The “physical”
energy component hits the glass, and one of them has to give.

The general rules for shooting through barriers, (Combat, p.
98) are used to resolve this, but use only one-half the Barrier Rating.
What happens is that the target adds one-half the Barrier’s Rating
to its own Impact Armor Rating when struck by a manipulation spell
cast through glass. If one-half the Barrier Rating is equal to or greater
than the Force of the spell, the spell dissipates.

Because manipulation spells have this “physical” energy com-
ponent, the target gets to apply its Impact Armor Rating in the
manner of ranged combat, reducing the Force of the spell by one-
half the Impact Armor Rating. A quick look at the relative Power of
weapons and the anticipated Force of spells shows that manipula-
tion spells are generally not as effective as a well-placed bullet. This
may be true, but spells, by their nature, have a certain degree of
flexibility (urdimited range and so on) that is lacking in weapons.
Besides, the additional effects of certain manipulation spells make
them worth the effort.

 
SPELL DIRECTORY

This directory describes the basic spells players will need to
roleplay magic and magicians in the Shadowrun game universe.

The spells are presented according to type: combat, detection,
health, illusion, and manipulation spells. Each spell listing is accom-
panied by the following notations:

Type tells the type of spell, whether Physical or Mana.

Range tells the range: Touch, Limited, or Line-of-Sight (LOS).

Target indicates how to calculate the target number for the
Spell Success Test. A notation of (R) means that the spell is Resisted
and so the target will roll dice to reduce the casting magician's
successes. If no (R) is present, the spell is Unresisted and only the
casting magician rolls dice.

Damage indicates the base Damage Level; Light, Moderate,
Serious, or Deadly, as well as whether or not the spell does Stun damage.

Duration tells whether the spell has Instant, Sustained, or
Permanent duration. If Permanent has an extra notation, such as
“Permanent (10Turns),” that indicates the number of turns the spell
must be sustained before it actually becomes permanent.

Drain indicates the Drain Code of the spell. The (F + 2) or [(F + 2)
+ x] notation indicates that the Drain Resistance Test is made against
one-half the Force of the spell (round down), or one-half the Force plus
some number. The second notation indicates whether the Drain Level
is Light, Moderate, Serious, or Deadly.

A player can designate a spell as exclusive or fetish-required
at the time his character chooses or learns the spell. See Creating
A Character, p. 43, and Learning A New Spell, p. 132. Spells listed
here are not designed with any Force modifiers.

COMBAT SPELLS

For a full discussion of Combat Spells, see Combat Spells, p.
127, Casting Spells, p. 129, and Spells and Astral Space, p. 149.
Things to remember are:

*Combat spells can only affect targets the magician can see.

-Armor does not help in the Spell Resistance Test.

*Mana spells are resisted by Willpower, and physical spells by
Body.

Fireball
An area-effect spell that causes Physical damage. The fireball
spell can ignite combustible materials in its blast area. Gamemaster
discretion.
Type: Physical
Damage Level: S

Range: LOS
Duration: Instant

Target: Body (R)
Drain: [(F + 2) + 3]D

Hellblast
An area-effect spell that causes Physical damage. The hellblast
spell can ignite combustible materials in its blast area. Gamemaster
discretion.
Type: Physical
Damage Level: D

Range: LOS
Duration: Instant

Target: Body (R)
Drain: [(F + 2) + 6]D

Mana Bolt
A powerful bolt of magical energy that causes Physical damage.
Type: Mana Range: LOS Target: Willpower (R)
Damage Level: S Duration: Instant Drain: (F + 2)S

Mana Dart
A small dart of magical power that does Physical damage.
Type: Mana Range: LOS Target: Willpower (R)
Damage Level: L Duration: Instant Drain: (F + 2)L

Mana Missile
A bolt of magical power that causes Physical damage.
Type: Mana Range: LOS Target: Willpower (R)
Damage Level: M_ Duration: Instant Drain: (F + 2)M

Manaball
An area-effect spell that causes Physical damage. This mana
version affects only living targets.

Type: Mana Range: LOS Target: Willpower (R)

Damage Level: M Duration: Instant Drain: (F + 2)S
Power Bolt

See Mana Bolt, above.

Type: Physical Range: LOS Target: Body (R)

Damage Level: S Duration: Instant Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]S
Power Dart
See Mana Dart, above.
Type: Physical Range: LOS
Damage Level: | Duration: Instant

Target: Body (R)
Drain: [(F + 2) + 1JL

Power Missile
See Mana Missile, above.
Type: Physical Range: LOS
Damage Level: M Duration: Instant

Target: Body (R)
Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]M

Powerball
An area-effect spell. See Manaball, above.
Type: Physical Range: LOS Target: Body (R)
Damage Level: M_ Duration: Instant Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]S

Ram

The ram spell damages inanimate targets. Successes from the
casting are added to the spell’s Force, which is then compared to
the target's Barrier Rating to determine the effect. See Barriers, p.
98.

Against vehicles, use the same procedure, comparing the results
against the vehicle’s Body as the Barrier Rating. Each indicated
reduction of the Barrier Rating does Light damage to the vehicle,
but does not actually reduce the Body Rating. If vehicle armor is
present, it should be added to the vehicle’s Body to determine the
Barrier Rating.

The target number of the spell is found on the Object Resistance
Table, p. 130.

Type: Physical Range: LOS

Damage Level: S Duration: Instant

Target: Object Resistance Table
Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]S

Sleep

An area-effect spell that causes Stun damage to living targets
only.

Type: Mana Range: LOS Target: Willpower (R)

Damage Level: M Duration: Instant Drain: [(F + 2) — 1]S

 

SHADOWRUN 151
 

DETECTION SPELLS

Some detection spells, those called hypersense spells, give a
magician new senses for as long as the spell is maintained. To
determine the range at which the hypersense operates, the magician
rolls Force dice against a Target Number 4. He multiplies the
successes by his Magic Rating for the distance in meters at which the
new sense will work. Such spells are listed as having a Limited range.

Certain detection spells, those called general, are not aimed at
a specific target or targets, so it is not necessary to make a test for
each of the umpty-hundred people in range of, say, a detect life
spell. First, the magician declares the nature of the information
sought. This sets the target number, which is 4 if the magician is
exploring all targets within sight, 6 for all subjects out of sight, or
10 for beings in astral space. For subjects who are out of sight behind
a magical barrier, add the Barrier Rating to the target number. The
magician then makes a Success Test, rolling Force dice against that
target number. See the table below for results.

AC
WIT

OZ
sa ZZ

152 SHADOWRUN

DETECTION SPELL TABLE

Successes Results
Only general knowledge, no details.
Detailed information obtained, but some
minor items inaccurate.
All details accurate, but minor items ob-
scure or missing.
Accurate and detailed information.

 

Detection spells against a specific target use the same table for
determining results.

If a magician sustains a general detection spell, new subjects
are picked up as they enter the area covered by the spell. The results
from the original success test still apply.

Specific hypersense spells are good only against one target
within the Limited range of the spell. A general hypersense spell
touches on all targets within the Limited range.

Spells that require a voluntary subject can be cast on any willing
subject.

 

Analyze Device

A specific hypersense spell requiring a voluntary subject. The
magician can analyze the purpose and basic operation of a device
or piece of equipment. The magician’s previous familiarity with the
device or similar objects reduces the target number by —2. The base
target number for this spell is based on the object's resistance, see
p. 130.

Type: Physical Range: Limited Target: Object

Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F = 2) + 1]M

Analyze Truth

A hypersense spell. The magician can tell whether a target's
statement is the truth or not. The target makes a Spell Resistance Test
using his Willpower Rating against the Force of the spell to reduce the
spellcaster’s successes. The caster needs at least 1 success to
determine validity. The spell does not work on written materials. The
magician must hear a statement to know if it is true or not.

Type: Mana Range: Limited Target: Willpower [R]

Duration: Sustained — Drain: (F + 2)S

Clairvoyance

A hypersense spell requiring a voluntary subject. The magician
can see distant scenes as if present, to the range of the new sense.
The magician must concentrate to use this sense, and while using
it, cannot use physical vision. A magician cannot cast spells at a
target seen using the clairvoyance spell. This spell does not
translate sound.

Type: Mana Range: Limited Target: 4

Duration: Sustained Drain: (F + 2)M

Clairaudience
A hypersense spell. The magician can hear distant sounds as if
present, to the range of the new sense. The magician must
concentrate to use this sense, and while using it, cannot use
physical hearing. This spell does not translate visual images.
Type: Mana Range: Limited Target: 4
Duration: Sustained Drain: (F + 2)M

Combat Sense

A hypersense spell requiring a voluntary subject. The subject
becomes able to subconsciously analyze combat or other danger-
ous situations. The theory is that the spell allows precognition, with
the subject sensing events a split second before they occur. Every
2 successes adds to the subject's Combat Pool for the duration of
the spell.

Type: Physical Range: Limited Target: 4

Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]S

Detect Enemies

An area-effect, general hypersense spell requiring a voluntary
subject. Within range, detects living beings who have hostile
intentions toward the subject of the spell. This spell would not
detect a trap (it is not alive) nor a terrorist about to shoot into a
crowd at random (the intention is not personal).

Type: Mana Range: Limited Target: 4

Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F += 2) + 1]M



Detect Individual

An area-effect, general hypersense spell requiring a voluntary
subject. To detect the presence of a particular individual, the
magician names the individual when the spell is cast. The target
number is 10 minus the Essence of the target, if the target is
mundane, or 10 minus the Magic Rating (or either Force or Essence,
as appropriate) of the target, if the target is magically active.

Type: Mana Range: Limited Target: See above

Duration: Sustained Drain: (F + 2)L

Detect Life

Anarea-effect, general hypersense spell. The magician detects
all living beings within range and knows their number and position.
In a crowded area, the spell is virtually useless, picking up a blurred
mass of traces. Requires a voluntary subject.

Type: Mana Range: Limited Target: 4

Duration: Sustained Drain: (F + 2)L

Detect (Life Form)

See Detect (Object)
Type: Mana Range: Limited Target: 4
Duration: Sustained — Drain: [(F + 2) — 1]L

Detect (Object)

An area-effect, general hypersense spell. The magician detects
a specified type of target: detect ork, detect dragon, detect guns,
detect computers, detect cameras, and so forth. Each variation is a
separate spell.

Type: Physical Range: Limited Target: 4

Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]M

Mind Probe

The magician can telepathically probe a subject's mind. The
target makes a Resistance Test using his Willpower Rating against a
target number equal to the Force of the spell. If the target fails to offset
all the successes, the number remaining determines the extent to
which the magician can probe the target’s mind. One success means
that the magician can read surface thoughts. The magician knows
what the target is thinking about at that instant, but cannot influence
the thoughts or draw other information from the target. Two suc-
cesses allow the magician to probe for thoughts. The magician can
find out anything the subject knows consciously. He can ask any one
question, and the target must answer with the truth as he knows it.
Three or more successes allow the magician to enter the target's
subconscious, and he can obtain the answer to two questions. Additional
castings of this spell against the same target within a number of hours
equal to the target’s Willpower are at a +2 per attempt.

Type: Mana Range: Touch Target: 4 [R]

Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 2]D

Personal Combat Sense
This personal form of the combat sense spell affects only the
caster.
Type: Physical Range: Self Target: 4
Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]M

 

SHADOWRUN 153


HEALTH SPELLS

Health spells can cure diseases or inflict them, detoxify poisons
or drugs, or mimic their effects, and some can temporarily modify
Attributes. Many health spells are curative, healing physical dam-
age and diseases. No techniques known to magic can erase fatigue
or cure mental conditions, however.

Antidote Toxin

These curative spells act on a toxin (poison or drug) or the
disease, not the person affected by them. The Spell Success Test has
atarget number equal to the Strength (Power) of the infection or toxin.

The antidote spell must be used before the toxin damages the
victim. Its successes directly reduce the Strength of the toxin at a
one-to-one ratio, making it easier for the target to make his own
Resistance Tests.
Type: Physical Range: Touch
(L) Toxin

Drain: (F + 2)L Duration: Permanent (5 turns)
(M) Toxin

Drain: (F+ 2)M Duration: Permanent (10 turns)
(S) Toxin

Drain: (F + 2)S Duration: Permanent (15 turns)
(D) Toxin

Drain: (F+ 2)D Duration: Permanent (20 turns)

Target: Toxin strength

Cure Disease

The cure disease spell can be used at any point after infection,
killing the germs in the patient’s system and eliminating any
symptoms at once, but it does not heal damage already done by the
disease. That takes a separate healing spell. Successes from the cure
spell directly reduce the Virulence (Power) of the disease at a one-
to-one ratio, making the target's own Resistance Tests easier.

A separate version of the spell exists for each of the Damage
Levels associated with toxins and diseases.
Type: Physical Range: Touch Target: Virulence
(L) Disease

Drain: (F + 2)L Duration: Permanent (5 turns)
(M) Disease

Drain: (F+ 2)M Duration: Permanent (10 turns)
(S) Disease

Drain: (F + 2)S Duration: Permanent (15 turns)
(D) Disease

Drain: (F+ 2)D Duration: Permanent (20 tums)

Decrease (Attribute)

The magician’s Target Number is 10, minus the target's
Essence. The target resists using the Attribute that is attacked, not
necessarily his Body Rating. The success totals of both are com-
pared. The magician needs only | success to affect the target. If an
Attribute is reduced to O, the target is helpless. If this is a Physical
Attribute, the victim is unconscious or paralyzed. When a Mental
Attribute is reduced to O, the victim is standing about mindlessly.
A separate version of the spell exists for each of the Physical and
Mental Attributes, and for Reaction, but the other Special Attributes
may not be affected. These are physical spells, but will not affect
targets with cyberware modifiers to their Attributes.

 

 

Type: Physical Range: Touch Target: 10 — Essence [R]
Duration: Sustained
Attribute -1
Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]L
Attribute —2
Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]M
Attribute —3
Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]S
Attribute 4

Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]D

Detox

Detox relieves the effects of a drug or poison. It must overcome
the toxin as the antidote spell does, but because reliefis symptomatic,
the target number for Drain is reduced. Detox does not heal damage
from toxins, but it eliminates any other effects they may have on the
victim (dizziness, hallucinations, nausea, pain, and so on). Detox is
the hangover cure of choice among those who can afford it. Each toxin
Damage Level is a separate curative spell.

Type: Physical Range: Touch Target: Toxin strength
(L) Toxin

Drain: [(F + 2)—2]L Duration: Permanent (5 turns)
(M) Toxin

Drain: [(F + 2)-— 2]M Duration: Permanent (10 turns)
(S) Toxin

Drain: [(F + 2)—2]S Duration: Permanent (15 turns)
(D) Toxin

Drain: [(F + 2)-—2]D Duration: Permanent (20 turns)

Increase Attribute

The spell increases a normal Physical or Mental Attribute and
Reaction (with special modifications) but not any other Special
Attributes. The target number for the Spell Success Test is equal to
twice the rating of the Attribute to be increased. A single success is
sufficient. This spell does not affect cybernetic features, which require
the spell described next. Each Attribute has four specific spells, and
so there might be a magician who knows Increase Strength +2,
Increase Quickness +1, and so on.

The increase Reaction version of this spell has a Drain one level
higher; L becomes M, M becomes S, and S becomes D. There is no
increase Reaction +4 spell. The increase Reaction spell only in-
creases the Reaction Rating and gives no other benefits.

Note that this spell does not stack on top of other increase
attribute spells of the same type. When cast on characters with an
already magically boosted Attribute (such as a physical adept), the
target number is increased by +4.

Type: Mana Range: Touch Target: 2 x affected Attribute
Attribute +1
Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]L Duration: Sustained
Attribute +2
Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]M Duration: Sustained
Attribute +3
Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]S Duration: Sustained
Attribute +4

Drain: [(F+ 2)+1]D Duration: Sustained

 

154 SHADOWRUN
 

Increase Cybered Attribute

Like the increase attribute spell described above, except that
these spells increase Attributes already affected by cybernetics.
Increase cybered Reaction +4 has a [(F + 2) + 5]D code.

Type: Physical Range: Touch Target: 2 x affected Attribute
Attribute +1
Drain: [(F + 2) +3]L Duration: Sustained
Attribute +2
Drain: [(F + 2) + 3]M Duration: Sustained
Attribute +3
Drain: [(F + 2) + 3]S Duration: Sustained
Attribute +4

Drain: [(F + 2) + 3]D Duration: Sustained
Increase Reflexes
This spell increases the Initiative dice of the voluntary subject
by the amount indicated for the spell (+1, +2, or +3). There is no
cybered version of this spell, so characters who have received
cybernetic enhancements that add Initiative dice (e.g., wired
reflexes) cannot be boosted by this spell.
Type: Mana Range: Touch Target: 2 x Reaction
+1 Initiative Die
Drain: (F + 2)M
+2 Initiative Dice
Drain: (F + 2)S
+3 Initiative Dice
Drain: (F + 2)D

Duration: Sustained
Duration: Sustained
Duration: Sustained

Treat

The treat and heal spells are both curative. Each will heal a
number of boxes of damage equal to the successes rolled. The
difference is that the treat spell must be applied within one hour of
injury. The heal spell may be applied at any time. A character can
only be magically treated or healed once for any single set of
injuries.

The target number for these spells is 10 or 8 minus the target's
Essence. The spell is permanent and must be maintained for the
base time indicated on the Healing Table, below.

Successes from the Spell Success Test can be used to actually
heal boxes of damage or used to reduce the base time, as indicated
on the table. Divide the successes into the base time. The total
successes can be split between the two uses (healing and time
reduction), as the magician desires.

The Drain Resistance Test target number is equal to one-half the
Force of the spell, and the Drain Level is equal to the current Wound
Level of the target, Light, Moderate, Serious, or Deadly.

Type: Mana Range: Touch Target: 8 — Essence
Duration: Permanent
Drain: (F + 2)(Wound Level)

Heal

See Treat, above.

Type: Mana Range: Touch
Duration: Permanent

Drain: (F + 2)(Wound Level)

Target: 10 — Essence

HEALING TABLE
Damage Level Time
Deadly 20 turns
15 turns
10 turns
5 turns

Serious
Moderate
Light

 

ILLUSION SPELLS

No matter how realistic are illusion spells, they cannot perma-
nently harm a character, mentally or physically. They can cause
distractions, loss of balance or orientation, and even symptoms like
nausea or pain. Such symptoms vanish as soon as the magician
drops the illusion.

Obvious illusions are usually no more than entertainments, but
a magician can use the more powerful ones to at least distract
enemies, even when the opponents are aware of the illusion.
Single-sense illusions seem real to only one physical sense. Full-
sensory illusions seem completely real to the targets.

An illusion spell that is Resisted has an (R) added to the target
number. In these cases, the target gets a Spell Resistance Test,
rolling the dice indicated by the Target notation against a target
number equal to the Spell Force Rating. The target’s successes
reduce the magician’s successes, and thereby the effect of the spell.

Mana-based illusion spells are completely ineffective across
technological remote-viewing systems like security cameras. A
physical-based illusion spell actually bends and shapes light, and so
will be effective across such systems.

Chaos

A target who fails to resist a chaos spell is subject to massive
distractions. The spell consumes all senses in a cloud of blinding
sights, fierce odors, and tickling sensations. A major distraction (+ 1
to all target numbers) is suffered for every extra success the spell has
after being reduced by the Spell Resistance Test. This spell can also
deceive technological sensing devices in addition to the target’s
own senses.

Type: Physical

Duration: Sustained

Range: LOS ___ Target: Intelligence (R)

Drain: [(F + 2) + 2]M

Chaotic World
This is an area-effect version of the chaos spell.
Type: Physical Range: LOS Target: Intelligence (R)
Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 2]S

Confusion

This is an area-effect spell similar to the chaos spell, except that
the confusion spell does not affect technological systems. Visual
illusions fill the affected area, making it a place of shifting forms,
dazzling lights, and pools of shadow. Those who fail to resist suffer
a distraction (+1 to all target numbers) for every two successes
remaining after reductions from the Spell Resistance Test.

Type: Mana Range: LOS Target: Willpower (R)

Duration: Sustained Drain: (F + 2)S

 

SHADOWRUN 155
Entertainment
This area-effect spell requires voluntary subjects. It creates
obvious, but entertaining, illusions for all who wish to watch. The
number of successes measures how entertaining the audience finds
the illusion.
Type: Mana
Duration: Sustained

Range: LOS Target: 4
Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]L

Improved Invisibility
Like the invisibility spell, below, except that this spell affects
technological sensing devices.

Type: Physical Range: Touch Target: 4
Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]M
Invisibility

The spellcaster must touch the subject, who becomes invisible
to normal light. Thermographic vision can still detect body heat,
and the subject is completely tangible and detectable to the senses
of hearing, smell, and so forth. Double the number of successes to
get the target number for an observer's Perception Test. A success-
ful Perception Test means that the invisible person or thing has been
noticed. The spell does not affect technological sensing systems
(not including cybereyes which are considered natural because of
the Essence Cost paid).

Type: Mana Range: Touch Target: 4
Duration: Sustained Drain: (F + 2)M
Mask

This spell requires that the magician touch a voluntary subject.
The subject assumes some physical appearance (same basic size
and shape) chosen by the caster. The number of successes becomes
the target number for Perception Tests by observers. This spell does
not work through technological devices.

Type: Mana Range: Touch Target: 4

Duration: Sustained Drain: (F + 2)L

Stimulation

The voluntary subject experiences a full sensory illusion of
whatever type the spellcaster desires. This is usually a luxury spell
bought by the rich and jaded, seeking sensations they cannot find
in the real world. Successes measure the pleasure of the subject.

Type: Mana Range: LOS Target: 4
Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]L
Stink

This area spell stimulates the sense of smell. Subjects within the
area of effect make normal Spell Resistance Tests to reduce the
magician’s successes. Each remaining success increases all of the
victims’ target numbers by +1 because of the sickening effect of the
smell’s stench.

Type: Mana

Duration: Sustained

Range: LOS Target: Willpower (R)
Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]S

 

 

MANIPULATION SPELLS

Manipulation spells are, potentially, the most powerful class of
spells in Shadowrun, and thousands of variations are possible.
Control spells can transform or control matter and energy. Control
spells can also affect the actions and the thoughts of living beings.
Transformation spells change the material structure of a target.
Telekinetic spells are various forms of mind over matter, from wild
poltergeist phenomena to subtle work-controlling machinery.

Manipulation spells that affect characters contrary to their
wishes must be resisted. Willpower is used, and the casting
magician must generate an equal or greater number of successes
than the target for the spell to succeed.

Control Manipulations

Control Actions

Like a puppeteer, the magician controls the physical actions of
a target. The victim’s consciousness is not affected, but becomes
only a passenger in its own body. The victim uses any skills
possessed at the magician’s orders, but with +4 to all target
numbers. The Threshold is the target’s Willpower Rating.

Type: Mana Range: LOS Target: Willpower (R)

Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 2]S

 

Control Emotion

The subject feels some overwhelming emotion, which can be
anything the magician chooses when the spell is cast. The spell can
make the target love somebody, hate somebody, or any other
single emotion desired.

The effects of this spell require roleplaying more than they do
calculating scores or numbers. The spell’s victims believe the
emotion wholeheartedly but not mindlessly. Asa rule of thumb, no
penalties apply if a character is doing something that is in keeping
with the emotion (fighting while filled with anger or hate). If the
character is doing something that is not relevant to the emotion
(trying to drive while laughing wildly), distraction modifiers apply
(+2 or more to target numbers). If the character tries to go directly
against the emotion (trying to shoot a “loved” target), it calls for a
Willpower Test with the spell’s Force as the target number. Distrac-
tion penalties apply even if the test succeeds, but it must succeed
for that action to be taken.

Type: Mana Range: LOS Target: Willpower (R)

Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 2JM

 

156 SHADOWRUN
 

Control Thoughts

The magician controls the thoughts of the subject. The victim
will carry out orders wholeheartedly as long as the magician
sustains the spell. This is the magical equivalent of deep hypnotic
suggestion. Actions that would be terribly destructive to the target
or his loved ones allow the character to fight the spell. He must pass
a Willpower Test with a target number of the spell’s Force. If the
casting magician is not present, a single success will do. If the
casting magician is present, roll that character's Willpower against
a target number equal to the target’s Willpower. The magician’s
successes reduce the target’s. One net success on the part of the
target is still all that is required to resist the heinous command.

Type: Mana Range: Limited Target: Willpower [R]
Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 2]D
Hibernate

The magician must touch a voluntary or unconscious subject.
The spell puts the subject in a form of suspended animation. Double
the successes from the Spell Success Test to get the factor by which
bodily processes are slowed. If 4 successes are scored, the hiber-
nate spell slows the subject's metabolism by a factor of 8. If the
subject has exceeded his Condition Monitor, he or she, or it would
take an extra box of damage every 80 minutes instead of 10
minutes, as described in Exceeding the Condition Monitor, p.
111. If the subject were suffering from a disease that weakened him
every hour, it would now take 8 hours. If he were sealed into a
chamber with only enough air to keep him alive for 1 day, the air
would now last 8 days.

Type: Physical

Duration: Sustained

Range: Touch Target: 4
Drain: (F + 2)S

Telekinetic Manipulations

Levitation allows a magician to lift an item or person from the
ground and move him or it around. The maximum “distance” that
the target can be moved in meters is the magician’s Magic Rating
times the number of successes. This distance can be expressed as
vertical distance (height), horizontal distance, or any combination
of the two. A magician with a distance result of 12, for example,
could move an object 12 meters horizontally, or 12 meters verti-
cally or any combination of the two, as long as the total distance
(horizontal plus vertical) equalled 12. This means that 10 horizontal
and 2 vertical is fine (10 + 2 = 12), as is 5 horizontal and 7 vertical
(5 + 7 = 12). The sum of the vertical and horizontal components
must equal the “distance.” All movement is figured from the
starting point of the target.

The magician’s target number for the Spell Success Test is
increased by +1 for every 100 kilograms of mass the object has.
(Figure a living being has 50 kilograms per point of body, and a
vehicle 1,000 kilograms.) A magician can move a levitated object
anywhere as long as the spell is maintained and the target stays in
view. Objects can move the full “distance” within one Action Phase.

If the spellcaster is attempting to levitate an item attached or
held by a living being, that being is allowed to make a Strength Test
against a target number equal to the Force of the spell. Reduce the
caster’s successes by the successes from this test. The caster must
have at least 1 net success to levitate the item away.

 

 

Levitate Item
Type: Physical
Duration: Sustained

Range: LOS Target: 4
Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]L

Levitate Person
Type: Physical
Duration: Sustained

Range: LOS Target: 4
Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]JM

Magic Fingers

Magic fingers is classic telekinesis. The magician creates
“invisible hands” and can hold or manipulate items by mental
power. The Spell Success Test has a Target Number 6. The number
of successes becomes the spell’s ratings for Strength and Quick-
ness. The character can use his own skills with the magic fingers
spell, but all target numbers receive a +2 because of the problems
of remote control. Even simple actions may require a Quickness
Test. The magician can fight, pick a lock, or whatever, using magic
fingers. The fingers can reach any point the magician can see. The
casting magician can use a clairvoyance spell or even remote-
viewing technology to get a close-up of the scene, as long as the
actual location is within his view. The spell comes in very handy for
disarming bombs.

Type: Physical

Duration: Sustained

Range: LOS Target: 6
Drain: [(F + 2) + 2]M

Poltergeist

Within the area of this spell, all small objects and debris, up to
a kilogram in mass, whirl around in random patterns. This reduces
the visibility factor of the area (+2 to all target numbers). The spell
does Stun damage as well, whacking targets with flying debris.
Targets within the area use their Quickness Rating, not Body, for
their Resistance Tests against such damage, with the Spell Force
Rating as the target number. The Damage Category is Light. Impact
armor provides protection against this damage.

Type: Physical Range: LOS Target: 4 [R]

Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]S

 

SHADOWRUN 157


Transformation Manipulations

Armor

A voluntary subject is required. The magician gives the subject
built-in armor, knitting his tissues into tougher compounds. Treat
one-half the successes made in the Spell Success Test as the Dermal
Armor Rating (add to Body) for as long as the spell is maintained.

Type: Physical Range: Limited Target: 4

Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 2]M

Barrier

Barrier is an area-effect spell in which the magician forms a
force field of crackling energy. The Spell Success Test has a Target
Number 6. The magician may form the barrier as a normal area spell,
which would create a dome of energy, or he may create a wall. The
wall’s height is the spell’s Force in meters. The length of the wall or
radius of the dome is equal to the magician’s Magic Rating. This
length may be adjusted in the same way as the radius of an area
effect, by withholding dice from the Success Test. The magician may
make the wall into any shape. Anything the size of a molecule (or
less) can pass the barrier, including air or other gases. Anything
bigger treats a physical barrier as having a Barrier Rating equal to the
spell’s Force (and is therefore cumulative with armor). Attacks
directed through a barrier spell have a visibility modifier of -1.
Physical barriers do not impede spells, even manipulation spells.

Type: Physical Range: Limited Target: 6

Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 2]S

Mana Barrier

Mana barriers do not stop physical weapons, but they do block
movement by living beings. Unliving things (like bullets) pass right
through. Passengers inside closed vehicles are not affected by a
mana barrier spell, but it would knock the rider off a motorcycle. A
mana barrier spell also acts as a defense against spells. Add one-half
the spell’s Force (the barrier’s Rating) to the target numbers of all
magicians casting spells across the barrier. It is also an astral barrier.

Type: Mana Range: Limited Target: 6

Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]S

Ignite

The magician accelerates molecular speed in a target, making it
catch fire. Anything that can burn is subject to this spell. The base time
to ignite the target is 10 turns, divided by the magician’s successes.
Once the target ignites, it is burning until it either burns up or is
extinguished by smothering, water, or a fire extinguisher. The spell
must generated more successes than the Body Rating ofliving targets
or the base Barrier Rating of inanimate objects. The ignite spell wraps
a being in flames, causing (F)M damage on the first turn. The Power
increases by 1 point per Combat Tum. At the end of each turn, make
a Damage Resistance Test, counting one-half impact armor. Ammo
or explosives carried by the victim may go off. If flames are not
extinguished, they burn out in 1D6 Combat Turns.

Type: Physical Range: LOS Target: 4

Duration: Permanent Drain: [(F + 2) + 2]D

 

Flame Bomb

This area-effect spell creates a blast whose effects surround the
target. Being of real flame, it causes easily flammable materials to
ignite and burn. The Damage Code for this attack is (F)M. Every 2
successes increases the damage by one level. The spell is resisted
by Body, and one-half the value of Impact Armor reduces the Power
(Force) of the attack. Resolve using the ranged combat procedure.

Type: Physical Range: LOS Target: 4

Duration: Instant Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]D

Flamethrower

This spell creates a stream of flame from the caster to the target.
Being of real flame, it causes easily flammable materials to ignite and
burn. The Damage Code for this attack is (F/M. Every 2 successes
increase the Damage Code by one level. The spell is resisted by Body,
and one-half the value of Impact Armor reduces the Power (Force) of
the attack. Resolve using the ranged combat procedure.

Type: Physical Range: LOS Target: 4

Duration: Instant Drain: [(F = 2) + 1]S

Ice Sheet

This spell creates a flat sheet of ice that covers a number of
Square meters equal to the caster’s Magic Rating multiplied by the
successes. Characters crossing the sheet must make a Quickness
Test against a Target Number 3 to avoid falling prone. Vehicles must
make a Handling Test to avoid having to make a Crash Test. The
sheet melts at a rate of | square meters per minute.

Type: Physical Range: LOS Target: 4

Duration: Instant Drain: [(F += 2) + 1]S

Light

An area-effect spell. This spell creates a mobile point of light
that illuminates an area equal to the magician’s Magic Rating times
the spell’s successes in meters. The illumination is roughly equal to
that from a good flashlight, but as an area-effect. This spell cannot
be used to blind, but does offset visibility modifiers for darkness; 2
successes counters a +1 modifier.

Type: Physical Range: LOS Target: 4

Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 2]M

Shadow

An area-effect spell. This spell creates a pool of darkness equal
to one-half the caster’s Magic Rating times the spell’s successes in
meters. The target number depends on the local conditions: bright
midday, 6; day, 5; day, overcast, 4; twilight, 3; street light or darker,
2. Every 2 successes imposes a +1 target modifier for Combat or
Perception Tests against targets within the area of shadow.

Type: Physical Range: LOS Target: See above

Duration: Sustained Drain: [(F + 2) + 2]M

Spark

This spell creates a small spark of electricity that springs from the
spellcaster to the target. The damage code for this attack is (F)/M. Every
2 successes increase the Damage Code by one level. The spell is
resisted by Body, and one-half the value of Impact Armor reduces the
Power (Force) of the attack. Resolve using the ranged combat procedure.

Type: Physical Range: LOS Target: 4

Duration: Instant Drain: [(F + 2) + 1]M

 

158 SHADOWRUN
COMBAT SPELLS
Name
“Fireball
*Heliblast
Mana Bolt
Mana Dart
Mana Missile
*Manaball
Power Bolt
Power Dart
Power Missile
“Powerball
*Ram

*Sleep

DETECTION SPELLS
Name

“Analyze Device
“Analyze Truth
Clairaudience
Clairvoyance
“Combat Sense
“Detect Enemies
“Detect Individual
“Detect Life

Detect (Life Form)
“Detect (Object)
*Mind Probe
Personal Combat Sense

HEALTH SPELLS
Name

“Antidote L Toxin
“Antidote M Toxin
“Antidote S Toxin
*Antidote D Toxin
“Cure L Disease

“Cure M Disease
“Cure S Disease

“Cure D Disease
“Decrease —1 Attribute
“Decrease —2 Attribute
“Decrease —3 Attribute
“Decrease 4 Attribute
“Detox L Toxin

“Detox M Toxin

*Detox S Toxin

“Detox D Toxin

“Heal

Drain

[(F + 2) + 3]D
[(F + 2) + 6]D

(F+ 2)S

(F+ 2)L

(F + 2)M

(F + 2)S
[(F + 2) + 1]S
[((F + 2) + 1JL
[(F + 2) + 1]M
[(F + 2) +1]S
[(F + 2) + 1]S
[(F + 2) — 1]S

Drain
[(F + 2) + 1]M
(F+ 2)S
(F+ 2)M
(F+ 2)M
[(F + 2) + 1]S
[(F + 2) + 1]M
(F+ 2)L
(F+ 2)L
[(F + 2) — 1JL
[(F + 2) + 1]JM
[(F + 2) + 2]D
[(F + 2) + 1]M

Drain

(F+ 2)L

(F + 2)M

(F + 2)S

(F + 2)D

(F+ 2)L

(F+ 2)M

(F + 2)S

(F + 2)D
((F + 2) + 1]L
[(F + 2) + 1]M
[(F+ 2) + 1]S
[(F + 2) + 1]D
[(F + 2) -2]L
[(F + 2) —2]M
[(F + 2) — 2]S
[(F + 2) -2]D

(F + 2)(Wound Level)

TABLE OF SPELLS

NOTE: An asterisk before a spell name indicates that further game mechanics are given with the spell’s complete description.

Type Duration

fsvvwvwvyeszszazgue

Type Duration


Type Duration



HEALTH SPELLS (continued)

Name

*Increase +1 Attribute
“Increase +2 Attribute
*Increase +3 Attribute
“Increase +4 Attribute

Drain
[(F+ 2) + JL
[(F + 2) + 1]JM
[(F + 2) + 1]S
[(F + 2) + 1]D

“Increase +1 Cybered Attribute [(F + 2) + 3]L
“Increase +2 Cybered Attribute [(F + 2) + 3]M
“Increase +3 Cybered Attribute [(F + 2) + 3]S
“Increase +4 Cybered Attribute [(F + 2) + 3]D

*Increase Reflexes
+1 Initiative Die
+2 Initiative Dice
+3 Initiative Dice

“Treat

ILLUSION SPELLS
Name

*Chaos

“Chaotic World
“Confusion
“Entertainment
“Improved Invisibility
“Invisibility

Mask

Stimulation

Stink

MANIPULATION SPELLS

Name

*Control Actions
“Control Emotion
“Control Thoughts
*Hibermate
“Levitate Item
“Levitate Person
*Magic Fingers
“Poltergeist
Armor

*Barrier

*Flame Bomb
*Flamethrower
“Ice Sheet
“Ignite

“Light

*Mana Barrier
*Shadow

*Spark

(F+ 2)M
(F + 2)S
(F+2)D

(F + 2)(Wound Level)

Drain

[(F + 2) + 2JM
[(F + 2) + 2]S

(F + 2)S
[(F+ 2) + 1]L
[(F + 2) + 1]JM

(F+ 2)M

(F+ 2)L
[(F + 2) + 1]L
[(F + 2) + 1]S

Drain
[(F + 2) + 2]S
[(F + 2) + 2J]M
[(F + 2) + 2]D

(F + 2)S
[(F + 2) + 1]L
[(F + 2) + 1]M
[(F + 2) + 2J]M
[(F + 2) + 1]S
[(F + 2) + 2]M
[(F + 2) + 2]S
[(F + 2) + 1]D
[(F + 2) + 1]S
[(F + 2) + 1]S
[(F + 2) + 2]D
[(F + 2) + 2]M
[(F + 2) + 1]S
[(F + 2) + 2]M
[(F+ 2) + 1]M


Type Duration

SHADOWRUN 159
 

Live and learn. Die and forget...unless you’re an expert
system.
—Zapper Weisman, legendary decker

| he Grid is the physical network of all computer systems interconnected by the world
| telecommunications system. Ifa computer is connected to any part of the Grid, then
| it can be accessed from any other part of the Grid. With the exception of some
' technicians, however, most people refer to the world-wide computer network as
the Matrix.

In 2053, hard-core computer systems users, those whose work entails sifting,
sorting, and routing vast and complex amounts of data, do not simply use their
computer system. They inhabit it.

Matrix technology places the user inside a computer-generated simulation of
the computer system known asa virtual reality. Everything in the Matrix is a graphic
(visual) representation of some physical component (like a datastore or processor),
a program (like a data-sifting browse program or an intrusion countermeasures
program), or an action (like copying a file, changing a code, and so on).

The computer operator of 2053 does not sit in some cubicle in some depart-
ment somewhere staring at a computer screen and typing away, along with
hundreds of other wage slaves. The operator’s physical body may be in such a cube,
but his senses are inside a wondrous neon and chrome symbolic representation of
the data with which he is working. A good analogy might be to actually being inside
a video game. The data moves and changes in response to the operator’s mental
commands, the Matrix technology translating his or her thoughts (with some
physical, keyboard-based assistance) into computer-system commands. Instead of
having to remember countless keystrokes and command words to get the work
done, the computer operator just does it. Compared to his or her counterparts of
the late 20th century, work is easy.

 

 

160 SHADOWRUN
   

tala Wis

   

 

SHADOWRUN 161
cial W a

Of course, those who have their own reasons for being inside
a computer system can take advantage of the same technological
advances. The same Matrix gear that makes a wage slave’s job
simple gives power to deckers. These renegade users can slip into
a computer system and use that simple graphic representation to
their own end.

ACCESSING THE MATRIX

There is only one way into the Matrix, and that is with a “Matrix
Imaging Cybernetic Interface Device,” or cyberdeck. Other inter-
face devices still exist, but they are old tech. The cyberdeck is the
only choice for someone who wants an edge. Leave the big, ugly,
slow stuff to the corporate wage slaves.

To connect into the Grid, all decks have a fiber-optic cable with
a standard data plug like those found on home telecom systems. With
the right tools, a decker can drop a neat little tap into any existing
comm line to accommodate that plug. All that remains is to power
up the deck, jack into it, and go. The deck connects to its user either
via an electrode net that slips over the head (the way of cowards), or
with a direct cybemetic interface through a datajack (the only way to
fly.) Some deckers still use some form of keyboard assistance, but
many prefer running with a pure cybemetic hook-up.

The deck, once activated, overrides most of the user's own
sensory information and replaces it with an electronic simulation
known as simsense. The simsense ( “simulated senses”) signal
translates the complex code-structures of the actual Grid into the
graphic representation of the Matrix. The deck, knowing that the
user's signal is traveling through a dataline, feeds the user a
simsense signal that makes it look (and feel) like the user is zooming
down a neon tunnel. When the decker is about to enter the vast
computer systems of Fuchi Industrial Electronics, for example, the
deck gives that system the appearance of a giant, five-pointed
chrome star many thousand times the size of the decker. Fuchi’s
computer system does not actually look like a chrome star, but
thanks to the cyberdeck, that is what the decker sees.

SEEING THE MATRIX

What does the Matrix look like? Most of it looks computer-
generated and -drawn no matter how astounding, even photo-
realistic, the level of detail. But it is still obviously computer-
created. Indeed, some sections of the Matrix are virtually indistin-
guishable from the real world, but those are dangerous places.

Everything in the Grid (or one of the computer systems
connected to it) has a symbolic representation in the Matrix.
Computer systems, when viewed from the outside, often look like
buildings, mountains, or other large-structure images. The inside of
a computer system might resemble a series of “rooms,” represent-
ing components of the system (known as nodes) such as datastores,
dataline junctions, or sub-processors. Connecting these nodes are
datalines that are represented as translucent tubes bridging the
space between the nodes. The decker must travel through these
tubes to get from one node to another.

Data also has its own representation, as do the systems that
guard it. The data might appear as floating cubes filled with swirling
data while a giant snake (representing a scramble security program)
coils around it, awaiting an unwary intruder.

 

 

Other types of programs also have their own representations.
An access security program might look like a doorway, while a similar
barrier program might look like an electric fence. The programs the
deckers use have similar representations. An attack program can look
like anything that might deliver an attack, from a knife to a rocket
launcher. A shield program might look like a traditional shield or
perhaps an energy field that rises up to protect the decker as needed.

And what does the decker look like? He looks like anything he
wants. A man wearing a suit of knightly or technological armor, a
being made of pure light, a glowing white ball, ademon from some
comer of Hell; it doesn’t matter. In the Matrix, anything can look like
anything.

This may seem odd, but remember that the images the decker
is seeing (and the sounds he hears, and so on) have no basis in
reality. These images are generated entirely by the cyberdeck,
based on information received by the computer system with which
it is interacting. The Fuchi Computer System described earlier, for
example, tells the cyberdeck that it looks like a giant chrome star.
The scramble program transmits a little piece of code that says it
looks like a big snake. The attack program says it looks like a big gun.
And the cyberdeck tells anyone who asks that the decker using it
looks like whatever the character has been programmed to look
like.

Read on to find out what happens when a decker actually
enters the Matrix.

ENTERING THE MATRIX

After a second of disorientation, the decker (that is, the Matrix
image of the decker character) appears in the Matrix at the point
where the cyberdeck tapped into the Grid. If he enters from an
illegal tap in the back room at Matchstick’s Bar & Grill, the decker's
image will appear in the telecom line that serves the joint.

The decker appears standing next to the deck’s construct. (In the
Matrix, the representations of physical systems, such as a computer
system, a node, or even a cyberdeck, are referred to as constructs.)
It is usually a small, white pyramid that looks the same as a licensed,
legal cyberterminal. It can assume any shape the decker wants, but
most deckers like to keep a low profile, and so they leave the
appearance of their entry point as is. On the other hand, some of the
really hot deckers don’t give a drek whether or not they get spotted.
The late, great St. Louis Blue used to image his deck construct like a
carnival tent with a neon sign that said “This deck belongs to the
meanest dude in the Matrix.” (Damn shame about old Blue.)

Usually, the decker plugs into the Local Telecommunications
Grid, or LTG. The LTG is the equivalent of an area code in an antique
telephone system, providing connections to all the phone systems
(and computer systems) within that area code. Getting into the LTG
is easy. It’s only when the decker wants to travel to another part of
the Grid, or to any computer system linked to the LTG, that things
get interesting.

TIME AND MOVEMENT IN THE MATRIX

For some reason, the data world of the 2050s is rather paranoid.
The corporate sector seems to feel threatened by deckers running
loose in the Matrix—and with good reason. Information is the world’s
biggest industry, and the market is always hungry for that little piece
of data that will incriminate an exec or give the R&D boys an edge on

 

162 SHADOWRUN
 

the competition. Financial records make specially tempting targets
for the data sharks of cyberspace. Billions of nuyen exist solely as data,
and like any data, they can be erased, modified, or transferred.

To travel anywhere legally in cyberspace, a decker needs
passcodes. Even entering the LTG requires a passcode so that the
phone company knows who to bill. Fortunately, LTGs are wide open
if a person has the right hardware. Even a deck that is nothing more
than last year’s techno-junk lets the decker in for free.

The point where two systems or grids connect is called a
System Access Node, or SAN. This is just one of many kinds of
nodes that form the Matrix. Entering a SAN usually requires a
passcode, because the system owners want to know who is
accessing their equipment. They install protective software (intru-
sion countermeasures, or IC) to keep out unauthorized users.

IC denies access to any user who cannot provide a legitimate
passcode. Users with the right passcodes can go right through, but
their passcode is logged. They are now on file. The system owners
know who they are, and the bill is in the mail.

Deckers can get around IC in various ways. They might have
someone else’s passcode or some software that can trick the IC. But
with a hot deck and the right programs, the decker can dispense
with those formalities. He or she is the Ghost in the Machine.

Passcodes

Apparent movement in the Matrix is instantaneous as long as
the decker is not crossing a node. When the decker reaches a node
and starts playing patty-cake with the IC, things slow down.

If the decker has a legitimate passcode, no problem. Flash the
code and pass the node. But if a decker has no code, he or she must
deal with the IC somehow—kill it or trick it—to get past the node
it guards. Whenever this occurs, use the procedure for Matrix
Combat, p. 178. Matrix combat works very much the same way as
ranged, firearm, melee, or magical combat.

A Matrix Combat Tum is the same length of time, and uses the
same basic Initiative procedure, as the regular Combat Tum. If two
tums of combat pass in the Matrix, two turns of combat pass in the
real world as well.

 

HELLO, OPERATOR

Each local telecommunications grid is part of a regional tele-
communications grid, or RTG. Ifan LTGis comparable to a local area
code, then an RIG is the long-distance system. The map in this
chapter shows the North American RTGs and their associated
security classifications. The corps know that deckers are out there,
trying to bust into their systems and using telecom networks
without paying for it. That is why every system access node has a
security classification, or rating. See Securtty Ratings, below.

Deckers in an LTG have several choices. They can:

‘Try to deck into any computer system hooked into the same
LTG, if they know that system’s address. The Security Rating
depends on the individual computer system. See Mapping Sys-
tems, p. 168.

‘Try to enter another LTG within the same regional Grid. This
requires that the decker cross one SAN to make the connection. The
LTG SAN has the same Security Rating as the RTG.

‘Try to enter the RTG. The RTG SAN always has the Security
Rating of the RTG the decker is trying to enter.

To enter systems outside the immediate area, the decker has
to get into the RTG. Once there, he can enter any other RTG in the
world, building a connection across land lines, transoceanic cables,
and/or satellite links. Entering anew RTGmeans the decker must go
through a SAN with that RTG’s Security Rating.

For example, Fastjack taps into LTG 2206 in Seattle.
He is heading for a Renraku mainframe on LTG 4206.
Changing LTGs within the Seattle RTG (Security Rating
Green-4) means he has to cross one system access node.
The SAN has a Rating of Green-4.

If he were going after a computer in Tir Tairngire, he
would have to move from the Seattle RTG (NA/UCAS-
SEA) to Tir Tairngire’s RTG (NA/TT). The destination RTG
has a Security Rating of Orange-5, and he would have to
pass a SAN with that security code. Darn touchy about
their privacy, those elves.

 

SHADOWRUN 163
isl Wis

NORTH AMERICA RTG MAP KEY

UCAS: All RTGs are Rating Green-4
Northeast (NA/UCAS-NE)
North Central (NA/UCAS-NC)
South (NA/UCAS-SO)
Midwest (NA/UCAS-MW)
West (NA/UCAS-WE)
Seattle (NA/UCAS-SEA)
Quebéc: (NA/QU) Rating Green-2
CAS: All RTGs are Rating Green-3
Seaboard (NA/CAS-SB)
Gulf (NA/CAS-GU)
Central (NA/CAS-CE)
Texas (NA/CAS-TX)
NAN Member States:
Sioux Nation (NA/SIO), Rating Orange-3
Algonkian-Manitou Council (NA/ALM), Rating Green-4
Athabascan Council (NA/ATH), Rating Green-3
Ute Nation (NA/UTE), Rating Orange-3
Pueblo Council (NA/PUE), Rating Orange-4
Salish-Shidhe Council (NA/SLS), Rating Green-3

@ Whitehorse

ATHABASCAN
COUNCIL « _Wwveliow knite
lf age

NORTH AMERICAN
REGIONAL
TELECOMMUNICATION
GRIDS
(RTG)

164 SHADOWRUN

| California Free State:
North (NA/NOCAL), Rating Green-4
South (NA/SOCAL), Rating Green-4
Tir Taimgire: (NA/TT), Rating Orange-5
Trans-Polar Aleut Nation: (NA/TPA), Rating Green-2
Tsimshian: (NA/TS), Rating Orange-5
Aztian: All RTGs are Rating Orange-3
Norte (NA/AZ-NO)
Centrale (NA/AZ-CE)
Sud (NA/AZ-SU)
Baja California (NA/AZ-BA)
Yucatan (NA/YU)
Caribbean League:
South Florida (NA/CL-FLA), Rating Green-2
Cuba (NA/CL-CU), Rating Orange-3
Jamaica (NA/CL-JA), Rating Green-3
Grenada (NA/CL-GR), Rating Orange-4
Bermuda (NA/CL-BER), Rating Green-2
Virgin Islands (NA/CL-VI), Rating Green-2

 

ALGONKIAN-
MANITOU
COUNCIL

® Winnipeg

 
E MATRIX

SECURITY RATINGS

All computer systems in the Matrix consist of a group of nodes,
which are connected to the LTG through a SAN. All the nodes in the
Matrix have a general Security Rating. This Security Rating reflects
the relative ease or difficulty with which a decker can manipulate
that node. Each node can also have an additional protection
program known as intruder countermeasures (IC) assigned to it.

The general Security Rating of a node is denoted by a color (its
Security Code) and a numeric System Rating. The Security Rating is
very important, because whenever a decker attempts to do any-
thing to any part of the node, he must first overcome the node's
general Security Code, so that it will start to execute his orders,
which are given via a program.

At the same time, most IC programs will be trying to get an
intruding cyberdeck to execute their programs in order to dump the
decker out of the Matrix or do something else equally nasty. In the
artificial environment of the Matrix, this attempt might manifest
itself as an actual attack against the decker’s persona (the Matrix
image), but in the real world, the nasty corp IC is really trying to
muck up the insides of the deck, just like the decker is mucking with
the insides of their main frame. Isn't symmetry a grand thing?

The color of the Security Code indicates the difficulty of getting
that node to execute unauthorized programs or instructions—and
let's face it, anything the decker does in the Matrix is unauthorized.
The higher the Security Code, the more successes the decker needs
to get a node to even listen. For example, getting a blue datastore
to execute an order to download a file requires 1 success on a
Computer Skill Test. Getting a red datastore to execute the same
instruction takes 4 successes.

Blue nodes are open and have no appreciable security. Small
personal computers, free advertising databases, public service net-
works, and so on are blue nodes. Getting a blue database to download
its information requires 1 success on a Computer Skill Test.

Green nodes have minor levels of security. These are usually
systems with limited membership or that charge fees for access.
Public library databases, subscription services, and most telecom
grids are green systems. Breaking a green code requires 2 suc-
cesses on a Computer Skill Test.

Orange nodes are considered quite secure. This is the typical
Security Code for any government or corporate system not contain-
ing highly classified data. Computer systems belonging to criminals
are often protected by orange IC as well. To crack an orange security
code requires 3 successes on a Computer Skill Test.

Red nodes are “top secret.” Classified government systems,
corporate financial and research and development systems, and the
systems belonging to organized crime syndicates are typical ex-
amples. To break this top-secret code requires 4 successes on a
Computer Skill Test.

 

 

 

The numeric System Rating following the Security Code is the
target number the decker has to beat when attempting to do
something to the node. For example, when attacking an IC program
on a Red-4 node, the target number to hit the program is 4.

DIRECTORY ASSISTANCE

The interlocking local telecommunication grids are too complex
to map in detail. So how does a decker trying to steal some data or
some nuyen find a system to rob?

System addresses are the LTG codes by which computers can be
accessed. They are “unlisted phone numbers,” and thus valuable
information. In an adventure, the gamemaster may leave a clue for the
characters that tells them where to find the address of the bad guys’
mainframe. Fixers and other contacts may offer addresses at a price.

A decker may need to jack into an RTG and hunt an address down.

Deckers must know what they are looking for. That is, the player
must tell the gamemaster something to the effect that, “The decker
is searching for Aztechnology’s private LTG,” or “I want the main-
frame for that Yakuza clan on Fifth Street.” What the decker is actually
doing is scanning all the databases that store access codes for that
particular RTG and its dependent LTGs, which is equivalent to looking
in a phone book a few million pages long.

To do this, the player makes a Computer Skill Test with a target
number equal to the RTG’s System Rating. Remember, he must roll
more successes than indicated by the Security Code color in order to
be successful.

If the first Computer Skill Test fails, the decker can make
additional tests, adding +2 to the target number for each new one.
Each time a decker makes a Computer Skill Test, the character risks
triggering an alert on the system he is attempting to access. The
gamemaster secretly rolls 1D6. If the result is less than or equal to the
number of tests it took to find the access number, or less than or equal
to the number of tests made before the decker gave up, the system
the decker was seeking to access will be on passive alert when the
decker comes to call. See Alerts, p. 168, for details. If the decker
leaves the system alone for a couple of days (say, 1D6) the system
administrators will cancel the alert.

EXITING THE MATRIX

A decker can leave the Matrix any time by jacking out, pulling
the plug that connects his datajack to the deck. Keep in mind that the
decker’s Matrix-image, the persona, is only a program running on the
computers of the Grid. The persona does not really go anywhere and
has no independent consciousness. Despite decker legends, one
cannot get “trapped” in the Matrix.

A decker kicked out of the Matrix involuntarily has been dumped.
The rapid cutoff of the deck’s simsense signal can cause the decker to
experience mild disorientation called dump shock. This lasts up to 30
seconds, during which time the character is disoriented. Dump shock
adds +2 to all target numbers for the duration. The character can make
a Willpower Test against a Target Number 4 to attempt to throw off
the effects, dividing the number of successes into 30 seconds to
determine the actual amount of time he or she is disoriented. Every
3 seconds, or part thereof, is one Combat Tum.

If fighting against black IC, the decker must make a Willpower
Test against a target number equal to the rating of the IC. This requires
a Simple Action.

 

SHADOWRUN 165
THE MATRIX

MATRIX GEOGRAPHY

The Matrix is mapped by locating the nodes and their connec-
tions. Each piece of a computer system is some kind of node. Each
node has a Security Rating and may contain IC.

The gamemaster should prepare maps for systems that are part
of an adventure. When designing a system, he may assign any
Security Code to each node, and any rating to IC.

NODES

The Matrix is composed of billions of nodes. A group of nodes
that works together is called a system. A system is a single
computer, usually a mainframe (a big, non-portable computer).

Nodes are connected by datalines, which have no Security
Rating. There is no IC on a dataline, nor any hardware to run
programs, so no Matrix combat can occur there. If combat crosses
through a dataline, it will continue in the node to which the line
connects. Datalines look like translucent narrow bridges, pathways,
or tunnels of energy, pulsing as data flows through them.

Following are descriptions of the seven basic types of node:
what they are, examples of how they appear from inside (the
construct), what the decker can do when inside (system opera-
tions), and the types of nodes to which they connect.

Central Processing Unit (CPU)

Every system has only one central processing unit, or CPU. It
is the heart and brain of the system. Most systems have powerful
IC guarding the CPU.

Construct

The CPU construct looks like a huge octagonal room, built of
massive circuit boards pulsing with dazzling energy. Screens
display the data flowing through the computer and the status of the
other nodes in the system.

System Operations

Cancel Alert: Cancels a passive alert signal. An active alert
program in progress is beyond the decker’s control. Triggering a
cancel alert operation will not prevent subsequent alerts from
performing their function.

Change Node: This is a “teleport” straight into any node in the
system. This only works one way; once there, the decker cannot
“teleport” back to the CPU.

Display Map: The gamemaster must show the decker-player
amap of the system. It shows its nodes and their security codes, but
no IC, files, or anything else. [Note: Gamemasters should make a
separate map including this additional information for their own use
when creating a system.]

Shutdown: This crashes the system and dumps any deckers
anywhere in the system.

Node Connections

The CPU can connect to any other type of node in the system.
Because of this node’s extreme importance, however, it is usually
protected from the other nodes by a “layer” of SPUs, so that no
access port goes directly to the CPU.

 

Datastore (DS)

A datastore holds information, or files. From the decker’s point
of view, this is where the loot is. Datastores also tend to be heavily
loaded with IC.

Construct

The datastore construct is a maze of rectangular blocks of
energy, files filled with swirling letters and numbers in different
colors. Each file is 2D6 x 10 Mp in size.

System Operations

Erase: Wipe out one file (e.g., erase a police record).

Edit: Change contents of a file (e.g., awarding someone
straight A’s on a college transcript).

Read: Reading a file works like downloading it. The decker does
not actually copy it, so the deck does not need storage to hold it. The
decker is skimming the file’s contents. If a character wants to find the
private telecom number for a corporate officer, he should read the
personnel files. The gamemaster is the judge of what a decker can get
from a file by reading. Simple facts like names, dates, phone numbers,
addresses, and so on are easy to remember. Highly technical data
cannot be memorized. For example, if the decker wants to find and
sell a complex formula, he must download it.

Transfer: Copy data to a cyberdeck’s storage (downloading) or
from storage to the datastore (uploading). This is governed by the
deck’s I/O speed. The decker must stay in the node until the transfer
is complete, or else it aborts.

Node Connections
Datastores can connect to other datastores, SPUs, or the CPU.

1/O Ports (1/OP)

An I/OP is a limited-access node that opens the system to
various data input/output devices: terminals, cyberdecks, printers,
graphics displays, data readers for optical chips, and so on. A
decker can jack into the system through these devices using a
cyberdeck. In big systems, a single |/OP node could be the access
point for hundreds of devices.

Construct

The I/O port construct is a pyramid-shaped white chamber. If
the I/OP controls a number of terminals, the Matrix-image stands
in a cluster of pyramids connected by datalines, usually radiating
out from a large, central pyramid.

System Operations

Display Message: Display a message on the terminal the |/OP
controls.

Lockout: Lock the I/OP out of the system. Nothing it controls
can contact the computer now. If the |/OP represents a cyberterminal
that someone is using, the decker must crash the terminal through
Matrix combat first.

Node Connections
I/OPs can connect to SPUs or, rarely, to the CPU.

 

166 SHADOWRUN
 

 

Sub-Processor Units (SPU)

An SPU is asmall computer that is “slaved” to a more powerful
one. The CPU gives it orders, and the SPU does various jobs for the
boss node. Some SPUs are just “traffic cops,” connecting datalines erste
to other nodes. Others might lead to datastores or other goodies. pe sean
Construct

The SPU construct is a large chamber filled with pulsing banks
of circuits and sizzling lines of energy.

System Operations
None. mathe Uhiiig
(SPU)

Node Connections

SPUs can connect to any other type of node in the system.

System Access Node (SAN) |
A SAN connects to other systems or to the Grid. They are the
doorways into systems. |
Construct
The SAN constructs appear as complex doorways or airlocks

through the walls of the system architecture.
System
| Sine. ‘ Eisai lS
System Operations ioe fo
Lockout: The decker can lock the SAN, preventing any other
persona from using it.

Node Connections
4 Ni Input/Output
SANs can connect to an SPU. They can also connect to the CPU, | ; ‘ Port
but this is rare. | “a A (1/OP)

Slave Node (SN)

A slave node controls some physical process or device,
anything from an electric coffeemaker to an assembly line to the
elevators for a corp HQ building. A decker can jack into the system Paaeonee
through a slave node. oS}

Construct

The SN construct appears as a small, cubical room, its walls
covered with flashing patterns of light. The more complex the
slaved system, the larger the room and the more complex the
pattern of lights.

System Operations NODE CONNECTIONS TABLE

Control: The decker can control whatever the slave node Node Data Type Connections
controls, whether it be making the coffee boil overorshuttingdown cpu DS I/OP SN_~ SPU
the assembly line. Central Processing

Sensor Readout: The decker can read any sensors or cameras | Unit (CPU) No Yes Yes Yes
run by the slave node. For example, the slave controlling building Datastore (DS) Yes No
security would let the decker use the security cameras. I/O Port (I/OP) No No

Slave Node (SN) No No

Node Connections Sub-Processing

SNs can connect to SPUs and to the CPU. Unit (SPU) Yes

System Access
Node (SAN) Yes

 

 

SHADOWRUN 167
 

SYSTEM OPERATIONS

Once inside a node, a decker can perform one of the system
operations listed with the node type, as long as there is no
potentially hostile IC in the node. IC that has been crashed, or had
a deceive or sleaze program successfully run against it (for that
Combat Turn) no longer counts as hostile.

To conduct a system operation, the decker must make a
Computer Skill Test (Hacking Pool dice may be added) against a
target number equal to the System Rating of the node. The decker
must roll enough successes to overcome the node's Security Code
(see Security Ratings, p. 165). If the test fails, the decker can try
again, adding +2 to the target number.

For each attempt after the first, the gamemaster should roll
1 DO. If the result is less than or equal to the total number of system
operation attempts thus far, a passive alert signal is activated. If the
decker leaves the node, the chance of such an alert being triggered
drops by 1 for each Combat Turn that passes.

ALERTS
IC can set off two kinds of alerts, passive and active.

Passive Alert

A passive alert means that the computer is not sure that it has
been invaded, but is going to be careful. Add +50 percent to the
ratings of all IC. Passive alerts last only an hour or so at most,
because they slow down other processing. Any time a second
passive alert is triggered while the system is already on alert, it
automatically triggers an active alert.

Active Alert

This means the computer decides it has been invaded. It
notifies its human operators, who will take whatever action the
gamemaster thinks appropriate, usually sending one or more
deckers into the system after the invader.

The controlling operator's most drastic response to an active
alert is to shut down the computer. The operator will take this action
ifit looks like the invader has beaten any defenders sent against him,
or if the alert was triggered from a highly security-sensitive node
like the CPU or a red datastore. It takes 2D6 turns to shut down the
computer without damaging the system. Shutdown triggers vari-
ous alarms in the Matrix as programs wind down and files close
safely. The decker’s persona sees flashing red lights and hears
klaxons. If the persona is still in the system when it shuts down, the
decker is dumped.

THE OPPOSITION

Hostile (defending) deckers have various levels of experience,
and do not need deception programs because they have passcodes
for all the nodes. (No, chummer, you can’t mug one of them in the
Matrix, and steal the codes.) Use the rules for pursuit in Avoiding
Combat, p. 179, to determine whether or not a hostile decker finds
the invader.

Following are several examples that may help gamemasters
design system defenders as they become more familiar with the
rules. Keep the odds balanced so that the player decker has to
sweat, but try to avoid throwing an army (or Godzilla) at him.

Bush League

A decker working on a cyberterminal starts hunting around the
system, beginning in the node where the alert was triggered. Use
the Decker Archetype with a cyberterminal version of an Allegiance
Alpha deck with Attack 4.

Minor League
A Decker Archetype is sent in to the system using a Fuchi-4
deck with Attack 4 and Shield 2. Persona programs are all Rating 3.

Major League

Use the Decker Archetype equipped with a Fuchi-6 deck with
Level | response increase. The decker also carries Attack 6, Shield 2,
and Mirrors 2. Persona programs are all Rating 5.

Heavy Hitter

This Decker Archetype has the same experience as a Major
Leaguer, but his persona programs are all Rating 6, and the deck has
a Level 2 response increase.

MAPPING SYSTEMS

The gamemaster is responsible for mapping out systems for
player deckers to invade. To map a system, begin by drawing a
rectangle to represent the SAN on a sheet of paper. Choose a
color—for example, orange—and outline the box with that color,
or write “Orange” next to it. Next, choose a number randomly or
roll 1D6 + 2 to determine the System Rating for an orange node (for
this example, use a 4). If the node is to be protected by IC, choose
a program. For example, assign access IC to this node. Now choose
another number, or roll 2D6 (result of 9). Write Access 9 in the
Orange-4 SAN. And that’s all there is to designing a node.

Keep adding nodes and connecting them with datalines until
the system looks appealing. Gamemasters should probably go easy
on the deckers until everyone involved has developed a feel for
adventures in the Matrix.

Any loot worth decking for is usually kept in a datastore. Files
are 2D6 x 10 Mp in size. Assign a monetary value to the file. If the
decker is looking for a specific file or clue, the gamemaster must
note which datastore contains that item.

The gamemaster can also hide the desired information in other
places. If the info is in an I/OP, the decker must access someone's
personal computer to get the incriminating evidence; if in a slave
node, the decker can spy on the bad guy by using the building
security cameras. The info could even be stashed in the CPU that
unlocks the villain’s bank account in the Swiss L5. Credit balances
are loot, too. Money is data, like everything else, and can be lifted
from a datastore. Deckers have to fence nuyen that they steal from
acomputer, because unlaundered nuyen is easily traced. See p. 188
for Fencing the Loot.

Gamemasters should read through the IC descriptions in the
section on intrusion countermeasures and install IC into their
system fairly. In the real world, no corp can afford the programming
expense of putting black IC on every node.

 

168 SHADOWRUN
Typical Matrix architecture will have several areas of datastores,
I/OPs, and SPUs, with varying degrees of security. High-security
areas are generally guarded by orange or red SPUs carrying nasty
IC. The CPU is usually orange or red as well, and runs killer or even
(gulp) black IC.

SECURITY CODE TABLE
Security Code System Rating IC Rating
Blue 1D6 None
1D6 +1 1D6 +1
1D6 +2 2D6
2D6 + 1

Green
Orange
Red 2D6

 

MAPPING THE TELECOMMUNICATION GRIDS

Itis impossible to map the telecom grids in detail. They contain
billions of possible connections and are constantly changing, with
each RTG containing many LTGs. The simplest way to keep track of
LTGs is to assign each a numeric code and then keep a log of
important systems that connect to those LTGs, similar to a private
phone book. For example, an LTG 2206 in Seattle would be
designated as NAUCAS-SEA-2206.

An RTGmay contain any number of LTGs. Keep notes showing
what systems hook into each LTG. For example:

NA/UCAS-SEA-2206: Lone Star Public Security Records

NA/UCAS-SEA-2708: Intercontinental Bank of Japan

NA/UCAS-SEA-4938: Mathilda’s (A betting parlor and house
of ill-repute, also a front for the yakuza)

NA/UCAS-SEA-4206: Hemdall Group Regional Headquarters

NA/UCAS-SEA-943 1: EBMM District Sales Office

Players should never know all the contents of the gamemaster’s
phone book because all system owners guard their LTG locations
jealously. Player characters will have to hunt down an access code
or acquire it during an adventure to know where an LTG system
connects. Let them keep their own phone books.

Private LTGs

The highest levels of security are found among the megacorps,
the government, and private citizens who can pay for it (like the
local yakuza oyabun). The most secure LTGs are private. The trend
toward ultra-private telecommunications numbers had already
started by the 1970s, when large corporate skyscrapers in New York
City were assigned their own area codes within the normal 212 area
code that served Manhattan.

Private LTGs are designated by an ID code appended to the
LTG code.

For example, NA/UCAS-NE-3617-EBMMHQ is the private
LTG for EBMM UCAS headquarters in Boston. Accounting, R&D,
public relations, and security would each have a separate number
belonging to the EBMM operation in the Boston area.

A regular LTG has the same Security Code as its RTG. It will
come as no surprise, however, that private LTGs are not bound by
this rule. They have whatever Security Rating their owner can afford,
and usually are orange or even red.

 

 

URUSION COUNTERMEASURES

Intrusion countermeasures (IC) are software programs in-
stalled in a system to protect that system’s information from
unauthorized users. Intrusion countermeasures may be installed in
any node with a Security Code of green or higher. “Ice,” as it is
colloquially pronounced, makes life difficult for deckers. Some IC
tries to make life impossible for deckers. Every IC system has a
rating, which is usually its “skill.”

There are three classes of IC: white, gray, and black. White IC
offers passive resistance. Gray IC actively attacks intruders or traces
their entry point into the Matrix. Black IC tries to kill deckers. Each
is described in the following sections.

WHITE IC

White IC is primarily concerned with identifying and locating
intruder persona programs. White IC is so called because it is not
harmful in itself, though it may activate other countermeasures that
are downright deadly.

If white IC is satisfied that a persona program may legitimately
be in the area, it will do nothing. (Each type of white IC has its own
requirements for “satisfaction,” as described below.) If the IC is not
satisfied, it will signal a passive alert on its next Action. The white
IC will check the identity of the persona program again, and if it is
still not satisfied, it may trigger an active alert.

Generally, the process goes something like this:

1. Intruding persona program moves into contact range. (As
long as the persona stays beyond contact range, the IC pays no
heed. Usually.)

2. The persona program must then attempt to fool the white IC
into believing it, the persona, is a legal signal. Again, see each type
of white IC for the types of programs that are effective against it.

3. If the persona succeeds, the IC lets it pass. The persona
program continues on.

A. If the persona fails to fool the IC, the IC will signal a passive
alert. It will then attempt to verify the identity of the intruder again.
If it cannot, an active alert is triggered and any gray or black IC
present will activate. See Alerts, p. 168, for full discussion of what
happens when passive and active alert signals are triggered.

White IC cannot defend itself against an attacking persona
program. White IC that survives to its next Action Phase while under
attack will trigger an immediate active alert. A decker can try to jam
the IC by using dice from his Hacking Pool. This requires a Simple
Action and prevents the IC from activating an alert onits next Action
Phase. Make a test with Hacking Pool dice using the IC’s System
Rating as the target number. The IC makes a test against the persona
program, using its own rating for the number of dice rolled, and the
persona’s Masking Rating as its target number. If the IC wins, it
triggers the alert.

If a persona does not immediately attempt to use a deception
or sleaze program upon entering contact range, the IC will initiate
the verification attempt on its next action.

 

SHADOWRUN 169
 

Access

Access IC looks like a doorway of shimmering light, made up of
billions of tiny alphanumeric characters swirling at ultrahigh speed.

The job of access IC is to verify the legality of a signal. If the
identity of a signal is legal, great. If not, its task is to YELL! Access
is the most common type of IC.

A deception program is normally used against access IC,
though both sleaze programs and outright violence will also work.
If a decker can successfully use a sleaze or deception program
against access IC, the persona program passes through or may
conduct a system operation in the node.

If the access IC is not fooled, it will declare a passive alert on
its next Action. See Passive Alert, p. 168.

If a slow program is used against it (meaning the IC considers
itself under attack), the IC cannot trigger an active alert as long as the
decker continues to successfully slow it. Ifthe attacker fails to continue
to slow it, the IC may trigger the active alert on its next action.

Access IC is not mobile.

Associated Imagery: Doors, passageways, transitions, and
the protection thereof

Typical Appearance: A doorway, a gate, a tunnel, a doorman

Barrier

Barrier IC is a solid security lock on a node. It resembles a wall of
jagged, pulsing lightning bolts. No signal may enter the protected
node unless permission is granted from outside the system. Barrier IC
only guards datastores or nodes where no data traffic would normally
occur. Barrier is, effectively, a wall that nothing is supposed to get
through. Barrier is one of the most common types of IC to activate
following an active alert. Intruders cannot pass through it, but IC and
corporate deckers (with the proper passcodes) can.

Barrier IC can only be defeated by a sleaze program or by
crashing it. A deception program will not work. Barrier IC triggers
or declares alerts in the same manner as access IC.

Barrier IC is not mobile.

Associated Imagery: Walls, barriers, protection, guarding

Typical Appearance: Electric fence, vault door, force field,
brick wall

Scramble

Scramble IC is usually found in datastores or attached to
specific files or programs. It resembles a softly glowing light across
the entrance to the datastore or wrapped protectively around the
file. If a persona program tries to touch the data, the light glows
brighter and gives off a humming sound. Scramble IC can be
defeated by deception or decrypt programs, or crashed with
combat utilities. It cannot defend itself, but will attempt to erase the
file itis guarding. Itis unable to do this if a decker continues to attack
it successfully. If the decker does not succeed in the attack during
his Action Phase, the scramble IC will erase the file on its next Action
Phase. Remember that the IC cannot erase the file as long as it is
successfully attacked or slowed. Fail once, and the file is history.

The decker can download the file that is protected by IC,
transferring both the file and the IC into storage. This adds the IC's
rating to the decker’s target number for making a transfer in that
node. Having downloaded the file, the decker can work on it at
leisure. Files downloaded with scramble IC still attached increase in

 

 

 

size by 50 percent. Even if the IC is transferred with the file, a copy
of the IC remains active in the node.

Scramble IC is not mobile.

Associated Imagery: Protection, guardianship, but with dis-
ruption/confusion if provoked

Typical Appearance: A snake that crushes data, a whirlwind
that scatters it, a shifting jigsaw puzzle

GRAY IC

Gray IC is more dangerous than white IC because it can actually
damage a deck orits user. Unless an analyze program is used successfully,
gray IC resembles white, in that the Sensor Attribute of the deck (see
Persona Programs, p. 174) recognizes both programs as IC.

Gray IC usually requires a trigger, which is often white IC. Once
activated, however, it needs no further prompting. If the gray IC in
anode is dormant and the white IC present is fooled by the persona
program, the gray IC will not activate.

When already active, gray IC will move to interrogate a
persona program as soon as the icon moves to within sensor range
of the node where the gray IC is currently located.

Some paranoid corporations place active gray IC in isolated
systems where sensitive data is stored. They often place the IC in the
SAN, particularly when most legitimate users do not have to cross
through the SAN to use the data in it (they enter the system though
1/OPs in the same cluster as the data).

All gray IC is mobile.

Blaster

Blaster is attack IC that engages persona programs in Matrix
combat. It behaves like killer IC, but if successful in crashing the
persona, it immediately gets an attempt to burn the deck’s MPCP
chips on that same Action Phase.

If the persona crashes, make a test using a number of dice equal
to the IC’s rating against a target number equal to the deck’s MPCP
Rating. Every extra success permanently reduces the MPCP Rating
by 1. Hardening must be overcome as a Threshold Number (reduce
the number of extra successes by the deck’s Hardening Rating).

The MPCP Rating losses can only be restored by replacing the
burned chips.

 

170 SHADOWRUN

Associated Imagery: Active protection/guardianship, fighting
Typical Appearance: Warrior, soldier, thunderstorm, attack
drone

Killer

Killer IC engages the persona in Matrix combat. Every success
it generates does 1 wound of damage to the persona.
Associated Imagery: See blaster IC
Typical Appearance: See blaster IC

Tar Baby

Tar baby is a nasty form of trap IC. If an attempt to fool the tar
baby IC (with a deception or sleaze program) fails or if the IC is
attacked but not harmed, the IC program crashes, taking the
attacking utility with it! That program must be reloaded.

The tar baby automatically triggers an active alert as it crashes.

Associated Imagery: A trap or snare (often disguised as
something else)

Typical Appearance: Trap, pit, pool, snare (again, often
concealed as something else)

Tar Pit

Tar pit IC works in a manner similar to tar baby IC, but it also
corrupts all copies of the attacking utility in the deck’s storage
memory. It does not affect copies of the program in offline storage.
Bad news.

Associated Imagery: See tar baby IC

Typical Appearance: See tar baby IC

Trace

Trace IC locks onto the decker’s access path and locates the
deck’s entry point into the Matrix. When it finds the entry point, the
trace is complete.

When trace IC is activated, make a test pitting the IC Rating
against a target number equal to the persona program’s Masking
Rating. The time the IC needs to complete the trace is a base of 10
tums divided by the number of successes rolled. If the test fails, the
IC cannot lock onto the deck’s signal, but can try again on its next
Action Phase.

Trace IC is a two-part construct. One part traces the decker, and
the other part stays in the system and waits to report. The part of the
trace IC that must be defeated to stop a trace in progress remains in
the system. It is mobile and will most likely move to a node with better
security as soon as the trace begins. This is the part of the IC that the
decker must either defeat or successfully use a relocate program
against. The clock keeps running the entire time the decker is dealing
with the trace. Only by crashing the IC or successfully using a relocate
program can it be stopped. Trace IC, like white IC, can only fight
defensively.

Associated Imagery: Tracking, tracing, following

Typical Appearance: A wolf, bloodhound, detective, seeker
drone

Trace and Report

When this trace IC has completed its task, it reports the real-
world address of the decker’s entry point into the system. What
happens then is up to the corporation. The IC itself goes dormant.

 

 

Trace and Dump

This program resembles trace and report IC, but, oops, the
decker is automatically dumped if the trace succeeds. Oh, and his
location is reported, too. Double oops.

Trace and Bum

This program resembles trace and dump IC, butit also executes
the equivalent of a blaster IC attack against the deck’s MPCP. The
blaster IC manifests, at one-half (round up) the rating of the trace IC,
at the decker’s point of entry into the Matrix. From there, it attacks.
The decker can only be defended by another persona program also
at that location. The decker cannot directly attack the blaster IC ifnot
within contact range of it.

When attacked, the decker adds a +2 modifier to all target
numbers for defending against that attack. The only way to defeat
trace and burn IC is to either successfully use a relocate program
before the trace is complete, or to crash the trace IC present in the
originating system before it trashes the decker.

BLACK IC

Black IC is so named because it attacks the decker, not his deck.
Black IC normally does Physical damage, but can be programmed
to do Stun damage if the system owner is in a good mood.
Remember, dead men tell no tales, but prisoners can be downright
talkative.

Black IC is activated in the same way as gray IC.

Black IC is most certainly mobile.

Deckers not using a cybernetic link are immune to the damag-
ing effects of black IC. Sure, a tortoise (see p. 177) can stand up to
the punishment, but he’s got to get to the black IC in the first place.

Once black IC scores a hit, the decker may either hang tough
or jack out.

Hanging Tough

When a decker decides to hang tough, he attempts to resist the
damage and keep fighting. The IC makes a test pitting its rating
against the decker’s physical Body Rating as the target number. The
decker may resist damage by rolling Body dice, or Willpower dice
if Stun damage, against a target number equal to the IC's Rating. If
the IC wins, the decker suffers 1 Light wound for every 2 extra
successes the IC achieves. Hardening acts like armor against this
damage. The shield utility is useless against black IC. The system
owner decides whether black IC damage will be Physical or Stun.

Jacking Out

To jack out, the decker must make a Willpower Test using the
IC’s Rating as a target number. This requires a Simple Action. If
successful, the decker clears out. Now, however, he must roll
physical Body dice against a Target Number of 4 to resist a 4M Stun
damage attack. Jacking out while besieged by black IC is no fun,
chummer. It can hurt. The decker also suffers dump shock (p. 165).

Someone else may jack the decker out. To do so, this other
character must make a Quickness Test with a Target Number 4. If
successful, the decker is jacked out, but still affected as above.

If the decker fails to jack out, the black IC gets to conduct its
next attack, as with hanging tough, but the decker may not resist
the damage (no Body or Willpower dice roll). Can we say ouch?

 

SHADOWRUN 171


CYBERDECKS

Cyberdecks are stunningly complex devices, even by the
standards of 2053. Not only do they contain a simsense interface
that lets the user experience the Matrix in full-sensory splendor, but
they have more processing power than a warehouse full of 20th-
century computers. The following describes the most important
components of a deck.

MASTER PERSONA CONTROL PROGRAM

The Master Persona Control Program, or MPCP, runs on a
grouping of optical chips that are the heart of the deck. It contains
the master operating system that integrates the deck’s programs.
It lets the decker control the appearance of the persona and
translates Grid signals into sensory input that the decker can see,
hear, and smell. It also turns the decker’s neural signals into
computer instructions that manipulate the Matrix. If the MPCP
crashes, the decker is immediately dumped.

The MPCP’s principal duty is maintaining the cohesive integra-
tion of all the deck’s components and active programs into what is
known as the persona. Visually, the persona appears as anything
the decker wants, but technically it is the decker’s “body” while in
the Matrix. The persona’s attributes are a combination of the MPCP
and four programs, called persona programs, that all decks must
run. See Persona Programs, p. 174.

 

The MPCP also has a Condition Monitor. This Condition Moni-
tor is where damage from hostile programs is recorded whenever
the persona takes damage, in much the same way a character's
physical body takes damage. The MPCP Rating represents its ability
to cope with damage before it crashes. The number of dice rolled
to resist damage is equal to this rating.

The appearance of the persona is pretty much up to the decker,
within certain limits. First, the persona will always have a “technologi-
cal” look to it, whether it be a silver-skinned siren, a high-tech knight
in electro-armor, a cyber-samurai armed with laser katana, or a
cartoon clone with a squirt gun. Whatever it is, it’s got to look tech!

The persona’s size remains “human” in relation to the Matrix.
That towering database the decker is about to hack into will stay
towering, whether the decker looks like Little Bo Peep or Tyranno-
saurus Roborex.

A utility program can appear in any form, but it must be
proportional to its rating. A Rating 1 attack program cannot appear
as a megaton nuclear-field howitzer. Nor will a Rating 7 attack
program look like a derringer.

HARDENING

Hardening is the equivalent of “armor” in the Matrix. The
Hardening Rating reduces the amount of damage done by enemy
programs (recorded in the Condition Monitor boxes).

ACTIVE MEMORY

Active memory is the equivalent of the old-style RAM (random-
access memory) of the deck. The total size of the programs active at
any given time cannot exceed this value. Ifthe deck has 10 megapulses
(Mp) of active memory, then it cannot run an 11 Mp utility. When a
utility is loaded, it takes up an amount of active memory equal to its
size. A loaded program stays in memory until erased.

The amount of active memory with which a deck comes
equipped can be expanded up to a maximum number of Mp equal
to the MPCP Rating x 50. Each MP of active memory costs 5¥.

STORAGE MEMORY

This is the built-in program storage in the deck. It works just like
the hard-disk drives in an old personal computer, but consists of
banks of optical data chips with nanosecond access times. A decker
carries utility programs in storage, ready for loading. Storage is also
where deckers stash downloaded data, fresh off the Matrix and
ready to sell to the highest bidder. A program or bit of data takes
up an amount of storage memory equal to its size.

Before a program in storage memory can be used it must be
transferred to active memory.

Storage memory allows unlimited expansion, for 2.5¥ per Mp.

LOAD SPEED

This controls the speed at which utilities load from storage to
active memory. It takes a Simple Action to activate the load
process. Loads are then measured in megapulses per Combat Turn
(3 seconds). If the program size is less than or equal to half the load
speed, it loads in the same action. For example, on a deck with a
load speed of 50 Mp/turn:

‘A 25 Mp program would load in the same Action during
which the decker activated it.

 

172 SHADOWRUN
THE MATRIX

CYBERDECK TYPES

Model Hardening

Radio Shack PCD-100
Allegiance Alpha

Sony CTY-360
Fuchi Cyber-4
Fuchi Cyber-6
Fuchi Cyber-7
Fairlight Excalibur

*A 50 Mp program would be loaded by the end of the turn.

‘A 100 Mp program would be loaded by the end of the next
turn, and so on.

While the deck is loading a utility, the persona suffers a +2
modifier to all target numbers. The deck can only load one program
at a time. Loaded programs remain in active memory until erased.

1/O (INPUT/OUTPUT) SPEED

This is the amount of data that a deck can download or upload
from a computer system in a Combat Turn. A 10 Mp I/O speed
would let a deck download 10 Mp per turn. The rules are the same
as for load speed. While transferring data, the persona suffers a +2
modifier to all target numbers and cannot move into a different
node. Any movement will abort the transfer.

CYBERDECK SPECIFICATIONS

Standard hardware for all cyberdecks includes:

‘A fiber-optic connector cable terminating in a ST]-400 stan-
dard telecommunications jack.

‘A keyboard with standard keys, numeric spreads, and a wide
variety of function keys.

‘Prepared slots on the MPCP motherboard for the persona
program chips.

CYBERDECK OPTIONS
Cyberdecks can carry optional features, such as response
increase, hitcher jacks, and vidscreen displays.

Response Increase

The response increase option is comparable to wired reflexes,
increasing the decker’s effective Reaction Attribute in the Matrix.
Co-processors are installed with the MPCP to support this feature.
If the deck is destroyed by trace and burn or similar IC, so are the
co-processor chips. Each level of response increase adds +2 to the
Reaction Attribute and +1D6 to Initiative, but only within the
Matrix. The maximum response increase level that a deck can
handle is equal to the MPCP/4 (round down). Costs are as follows:

Level 1: (MPCP x MPCP) x 100¥

Level 2: (MPCP x MPCP) x 400¥

Level 3: (MPCP x MPCP) x 900¥

Active

Memory

10

10
50
100
100
200
500

 

Storage Cost
Memory
50
50
100
500

500

6,800¥
12,600¥
99,A00¥
121,400¥
334,500¥
1,112,100¥

1,000 5,529,600¥

Hitcher Jacks

These are simsense electrodes that let other characters tag
along with the decker on a run through the Matrix. Hitcher jacks
allow these companions to perceive everything the decker does
and to communicate with him. They offer absolutely no control over
the run. The maximum number of jacks a deck can handle is equal
to its MPCP Rating.

Cost: MPCP x 100¥ per jack

Vidscreen Display

This is a floppy-screen attachment displaying the decker’s
point of view in the Matrix. The decker can also display text
messages to viewers on this screen. However, viewers cannot
communicate with the decker via this readout.

Cost: 100¥

USING CYBERDECKS

Only one decker can jack into any one deck at any one time.
If more than one decker is going on a run, they jack in separately,
each using a different deck. Personas can communicate in the
Matrix if they are within contact range (see Perception In the
Matrix, p. 177). Characters observing a run using hitcher jacks do
not count as deckers, because even though they can see the Matrix
and talk to the decker, they cannot affect the run.

Two decks cannot share programs directly, but deckers can
give other deckers data or utility programs while jacked in. This
takes time. The material must be uploaded to the Matrix by the
owner, then downloaded from the Matrix by the recipient. If the
recipient is getting a utility, it must then be loaded from storage to
onboard memory. This is fine when two deck-dancers are swapping
programs in a “hacker heaven,” but not exactly the way to go when
facing combat IC locking in for a kill.

The decker must be physically connected to his deck through
afiber-optic to his datajack. The deck must be physically connected
to the Grid through a communications line or system access point
of some kind. If anyone has developed wireless deck connections
yet, they aren’t telling.

 

SHADOWRUN 173


CYBERPROGRAMS

A decker needs a cyberdeck to get into the Matrix, and the
deck needs programs to take any action there. Unless he has the
right programs to razzle-dazzle the IC, the decker will need
legitimate passcodes and will have to settle for whatever those
passcodes allow. But if he’s got the programs, they are freedom!
Programs get the decker into the places where the corps want no
one to go and they reveal matters better off not seen. But those are
the only things worth seeing, right, technomancer?

The programs that run on a deck come in two breeds: persona
programs and utility programs. All the programs are integrated by
the central processor in the deck, the master persona control
program, or MPCP.

Persona programs are firmware, encoded chips installed di-
rectly into the main circuit board of the deck. Each program runs on
its own little computer, plugged into the cyberdeck hardware.
These programs are the decker’s attributes while in the Matrix.

Utility programs are software, the skills and gear of the Matrix.
When a decker needs a utility program, he loads it or just picks it
up; when he’s finished with it, he puts it away again.

PERSONA PROGRAMS

The MPCP maintains the persona. If the MPCP crashes, the
decker is dumped out of the Matrix. Without an operating MPCP,
the decker cannot perceive the Matrix and must return to what
passes for reality outside it.

Because persona programs are installed in chips, they do not
use up any of the cyberdeck’s onboard active memory. There are
four persona programs. Anything that attacks or opposes the deck
or the decker in the Matrix uses the ratings of the persona programs
as target numbers for Success Tests.

Bod

Bod is the persona’s “Body” attribute. It is usually the target
number for IC that has successfully executed an attack program
against the decker and is now attempting to crash him. See Matrix
Combat, p. 178.

Evasion
The Evasion attribute allows the persona to evade IC programs
and commands. It is directly analogous to a node’s System Rating.

Masking

Masking is the persona’s ability to “blend in” with Matrix
nodes. The attribute helps to defeat various tracer and identification
programs.

Sensors
This attribute lets the persona detect things in the Matrix.

Persona Program Ratings

Like other programs, persona programs have a Rating of 1 or
better. The total ratings of all four persona programs cannot exceed
three times the MPCP Rating of the deck.

 

UTILITY PROGRAMS

Each utility has a rating that measures how well it works. The
rating is used to determine whether or not a utility can get past a
node’s security, for example.

To run utility programs, the decker must load them into a
deck’s active memory. Utilities tie up active memory, even if they
have crashed. Should the deck not have enough free memory to
hold a new utility that the decker wishes to load, he must erase one
or more of the programs currently loaded in active memory to make
space for the new one. Erasing one program from memory requires
a Simple Action. Erasing a program from active or storage memory
is instantaneous and completed immediately.

Loading a utility from storage to active memory also takes a
Simple Action to begin, but large programs may require several
turns to complete loading. See Cyberdeck Specifications, p. 173.

A deck can only have one copy of a given utility in active
memory at any one time.

Degradable Utilities

Some utilities degrade, or become less effective, each time
they are used. The many reasons for this range from the Grid’s own
error-correction capability to the way a program itself works. Some
utilities “degrade” every time they run. Degradable programs lose
1 point of rating each time they are used on a given run. After the
decker jacks out, the utility immediately regains its original effec-
tiveness (rating).

Running Utilities

The decker’s Computer Skill Rating (or the rating in Software
Concentration or Decking Specialization) is the only one that really
matters once he is jacked into the Matrix.

Whenever a decker wants to give orders to a node or use any
of the utilities listed below, he must first determine if he can get the
node to execute his programs. Programs and commands can only
affect the node where the decker is located. (See Nodes, p. 166.)

Executing a Utility

To get a node to execute a utility program, use the following
procedure.

1. Make the program’s Success Test
2. Make the node’s Resistance Test
3. Compare the Successes

For the program’s Success Test, roll a number of dice equal to
its rating, plus any dice from the decker’s Hacking Pool (up to the
program's rating) against a target number equal to the node's
System Rating. Count the successes.

If the number of successes does not exceed the number of
successes needed to beat the node’s Security Code (p. 165), the
utility does not run.

To make the node's Resistance Test, roll a number of dice equal
to its System Rating against a target number equal to the persona’s
Evasion Rating. Count the successes.

The decker succeeds in executing the utility program properly
if he rolls more successes than the node, plus enough successes to
beat the Security Code of the node.

 

174 SHADOWRUN
a islam yaw)

Failing this test means that the security system protecting the
node rejected the utilities program. The decker can try to execute
the program again, but he adds +2 to the target number for each
test.

This test determines whether or not the program runs. It does
NOT determine its effect. To determine the effect, see the rules
associated with each utility.

Executing a program requires a Complex Action. To run a
program multiple times in the same node, it need only be executed
once. Of course, the decker may need to re-execute certain
programs if he did not generate a sufficient number of successes.

COMBAT UTILITIES

Combat utility programs are the weapons used in Matrix
combat to crash IC or another persona that is protecting a node. A
decker must be in contact range of the IC or persona to use a combat
utility (see Perception in the Matrix, p. 177).

To use a combat utility, the decker must make a successful
Execution Test (as described above), then run it according to the
Matrix Combat rules, p. 178.

Running a combat utility once it has been executed requires an
additional Complex Action.

Attack Program

To run an attack program, make an Execution Test, plus the
appropriate Matrix Combat Tests.

The attack program is the decker’s main weapon in Matrix
combat. Every success is a single “wound” on the target’s Condition
Monitor. Ten wounds crash any Matrix construct. See Matrix Com-
bat, p. 178, for details.

Size: (Rating x Rating) x 2 Mp

Slow Program

To run a slow program make an Execution Test, plus the
appropriate Matrix Combat Tests.

A slow program will slow down IC, but has no effect on another
persona. Any successes the decker achieves are subtracted from the
IC’s Initiative at the start of the next Combat Tum. See Matrix Combat,
p. 178, for details. If the IC’s Initiative is reduced to O or less, the IC
program is frozen and stops working. Frozen IC cannot initiate any
alarms nor can it trigger traps.

Size: (Rating x Rating) x 4 Mp

DEFENSE UTILITIES

Defense utilities improve the persona’s ability to avoid or resist
damage. Because the character runs these utilities on his deck, no test
is required to execute them. Programs that repair damage to the
character's persona also fall into this category.

Running a defense utility requires a Simple Action.

Medic Program

A medic program repairs damage to the persona. Roll a number
of dice equal to the program’s rating against a target number
determined by the persona’s current Condition Level, as found on the
Program Repair Table below. The test cannot be augmented with dice
from the Hacking Pool.

 

Each success rolled heals one “wound,” clearing 1 box on the
MPCP Condition Monitor. A medic program degrades each time it is
used in the Matrix, whether or not it succeeds in repairing damage.
The Program Rating can be restored by loading a fresh copy of the
program from storage memory during the run.

Size: (Rating x Rating) x 4 Mp

PROGRAM REPAIR TABLE
Condition Level Target Number

Light
Moderate
Serious

 

Mirrors Program

A mirrors program adds its rating to a persona’s Evasion
Attribute, making it harder for opponents to run programs against the
persona in Matrix combat. No test is required to execute this program
because it runs in the character's deck. The mirrors program de-
grades, reducing its bonus by 1 point for every Combat Tum that
passes after the program triggers.

Size: (Rating x Rating) x 3 Mp

Shield Program

A shield program acts as auxiliary “armor” for the persona and
its programs, automatically stopping a number of wounds equal to
its rating. No test is required because the program runs in the
character’s deck. The shield program degrades, losing 1 rating
point every time it stops damage.

Size: (Rating x Rating) x 4 Mp

Smoke Program

A smoke program simulates a burst of high-volume system
activity that obscures perception around the persona. Running a
smoke program requires a Simple Action, but no Execution Test.
The smoke program's rating is added to every target number
needed for tests made by anything in the node it occupies,
including the deck’s own tests. A smoke program degrades, its
effects dropping by 1 point every Combat Turn. The effect “follows”
the persona if it changes nodes.

Size: (Rating x Rating) x 2 Mp

SENSOR UTILITIES

Sensor utilities analyze data or other elements of the Matrix. A
decker must be within sensor range to use a sensor program. (See
Perception in the Matrix, p. 177.) This usually means the persona
is not close enough to the IC to “trigger” it, but close enough to
scope it out before having to deal with it. IC on active or passive alert
may prove to be an exception to this rule.

Sensor programs must be executed, as described in Executing
a Utility, p. 174. If the test is against the node itself (as when running
a browse or analyze program), use the successes generated in the
Execution Test to determine the program's result. If the sensor
program must also deal with IC (as with the decrypt program), it is
still necessary to defeat the IC after the sensor program has been
executed. (See the individual program descriptions.)

 

SHADOWRUN 175
tala Wi

Sensor utilities require a Complex Action to run (following their
execution).

Gamemasters are advised to make this test secretly to avoid
giving away information. For example, if the player knows the
target number for the test, he also knows the node’s System Rating.
If the player then notices that 2 extra successes did not allow his
character to execute the program, he can figure out that the Security
Code is red.

Unless otherwise specified, the decker can try again if he fails
to execute a sensor program. Each new attempt to execute
increases the program's target number by +2.

Analyze Program

An analyze program analyzes constructs or nodes. If the utility
is being used against a node, make an Execution Test, using the extra
successes to determine the program's effect. If used against an IC
program, the player must make additional tests (requiring another
Complex Action). Roll a number of dice equal to the analyze
program's rating (plus Hacking Pool dice) using the node’s System
Rating as the target number. At the same time, roll a number of dice
equal to the IC’s Rating against a target number equal to the persona’s
Evasion Rating. Any extra successes that exceed the total of the IC’s
successes and the successes needed to beat the node’s Security Code
are used to determine the effect of the program.

If the decker’s test succeeds, he learns the name of the construct
and gets a brief description of its function. For example: “You are
facing a barrier IC program,” or, “This is a slave node controlling the
employee coffee station on the 37th floor.” Deckers can also use this
program to analyze the Security Level of the node they are in. (“You
are in a Red-8 node. Please observe all safety precautions.”)

Size: (Rating x Rating) x 3 Mp

Browse Program

A browse program analyzes the contents of datastores, and
requires an Execution Test to run. The decker must specify the subject
matter of the search. For example: “I am looking for data on the
corporate security division’s covert activities.” If the program runs
successfully, the decker knows what files in the datastore contain
references to that subject, and the size of the files. No details are
available.

The browse program has a base time of 10 turns. Use the
successes from the Execution Test to reduce the base time for
running the program. See Nodes for details on datastores and files.

Size: (Rating x Rating) Mp

Decrypt Program

A decrypt program can defeat scramble IC, which turns data
into garbage if someone without the right passcode tries to access
the data the program is guarding. In addition to the decrypt
program’s Execution Test, other tests are also necessary (requiring
another Complex Action). Roll a number of dice equal to the
program's rating (plus Hacking Pool dice), with the System Rating
of the node as the target number. At the same time, roll dice equal
to the IC’s Rating, with the persona’s Evasion Rating as the target
number. Any extra successes that exceed the total of the IC’s
successes and the successes needed to beat the node’s Security
Code determine the effect of the program.

A scramble program that survives an attack may wipe out the
data it is guarding. See Intrusion Countermeasures, p. 169.
Size: (Rating x Rating) x 2 Mp

Evaluate Program

An evaluate program is a complex expert system that scans
datastores looking for any information of value on the open market.
The program rapidly becomes obsolete as the market changes.

Make an Execution Test, using any extra successes to determine
the program’s effect. An evaluate program tells the decker how many
valuable files are present and the size and market value of each one.

If the decker is on a mission to find information on a specific
subject or subjects, the evaluate program will reveal if the datastore
contains that information, in the same way as the browse program.

The evaluate program degrades whether it is used or not. Every
two weeks its rating drops by | point. The gamemaster may,
however, decide to secretly degrade the program's rating by | point
every 3D6 days instead: the decker would not learn of the loss until
it was too late. (This strategy accurately reflects how quickly the
changing data markets render evaluate programs obsolete.)

Size: (Rating x Rating) x 2 Mp

MASKING UTILITIES

Masking utilities attempt to fool IC into ignoring the persona. The
decker must be within contact range to use a masking utility. To
execute the program requires a Special Execution Test. The decker
rolls a number of dice equal to his program's rating, as usual, against
a target number equal to the node's Security Rating. The IC attempt-
ing to perceive the persona uses a number of dice equal to its rating
against a target number equal to the Masking Attribute of the
persona. To successfully execute a masking program, the decker
must achieve a net number of successes equal to or greater than the
node’s Security Level (color).

If the IC wins the test, it may trigger attack IC or a system alert
or take other programmed action. If the decker’s test succeeds, but
not with enough successes to also overcome the Security Level, the
IC does not react and the decker can try again. Each new test increases
the decker’s target number by +2.

It requires only one Complex Action (the special Execution Test)
to use a masking utility.

Deception Program

A deception program generates fake passcodes to deceive IC.
These passcodes are logged by the IC, so the deception program
does leave a trail of sorts. Deception can defeat access IC and gray IC.
It does not affect barrier IC or black IC. Use the Special Execution Test
against IC described above.

Size: (Rating x Rating) x 2 Mp

Relocate Program

A relocate program defeats trace IC, security software that tracks
a decker back to his entry point into the Matrix.

The decker makes a Special Execution Test against the IC. If
successful, the relocate program sends the IC on an endless wild
goose chase through the Matrix. The IC will think it is doing its job and
will not trigger any alarms.

Size: (Rating x Rating) x 2 Mp

 

176 SHADOWRUN
Ital areas

Sleaze Program

A sleaze program bypasses access, barrier, gray, or black IC
without leaving tracks. If the decker succeeds in the Special
Execution Test against IC, this masking program makes his persona
“invisible” to the IC. A sleaze program does not work if the IC is
already attacking or otherwise activated.

If the decker remains in the node where the IC is located, he
must re-sleaze the IC every Combat Tum, adding +1 to the target
number each turn.

Size: (Rating x Rating) x 3 Mp

DECKING

Decking is an art. How it is done is often as important as what
is being done; the egos and one-upmanship battles among deckers
are legendary, even outside their own circles. There is an entire
subculture of Matrix existence, typified by the Matrix Etiquette Skill,
out there to explore. It’s a whole different world in the machine,
chummer.

MOVEMENT IN THE MATRIX

Movement in the Matrix is virtually instantaneous unless the
decker is engaged in Matrix combat, attempting to deal with IC,
issuing system instructions, transferring data, or loading programs.
The Grid transmits data at megabaud rates (that’s fast, folks), and
system response is measured in microseconds. Only when dealing
with something that requires real attention does the action slow
down to where the decker can notice time passing.

When moving in the Matrix, the decker is moving from one
local or regional Grid to another; within a system, from one node to

 
another. Distance is entirely relative in the Matrix. It is a matter of
commline connections, available memory in subsystems, and
switching systems and transmission rates, not actual meters and
kilometers. Sure, the decker can float leisurely from point to point,
but why crawl when it’s possible to zoom? Perception is everything.

PERCEPTION IN THE MATRIX

Inside the Grid, distances appear vast and the scale enormous.
Inside a system, the area looks like a glowing neon maze of
connections, circuits, and dataflows. But keep in mind that there is
no “real” distance involved. In technical terms, the question is
whether the persona (remember, it’s only a program) is able to
access the data space of other programs or the controllers for
hardware elements in a system. In an odd sort of way distance is
relative to the amount of time (in nanoseconds mostly) that it will
take the deck to access the hardware of the next node.

There are three effective “ranges” in the Matrix; observation
range, sensor range, and contact range.

Observation Range

A decker is in observation range of every node adjacent to the
current node. InaGrid, one can, theoretically, see the system access
nodes connecting one node to other LTGs, RTGs, and computer
systems. If there are many of them, the sheer volume might block
vision. In a computer node, a decker can see all the adjacent nodes
in the system, but cannot tell what they are, only that they are there.

At observation range, the gamemaster gives only the basic
visual description of the construct being observed. If the decker
should recognize it, the gamemaster should reveal its identity.
(“Yup, you are definitely bearing down on the Mitsuhama
Pagoda....Wanna bail out now?”)

Sensor Range

At sensor range, the decker is within range to use any sensor
programs, but does not have to worry about the IC guarding the
node, file, and so on. This allows deckers to cruise up to a node and
scope it out before they actually try to enter.

In sensor range, the decker can tell what kind of node he is
approaching and identify the general nature of visible constructs:
IC, files, and persona are recognizable. For more information from
this range, the decker must use an analyze program.

When a system is on alert, gray and black IC may react to a
persona that approaches to within sensor range.

Contact Range
The decker can be in contact range of anything located in the
same node. All the decker has to do is decide to move into contact
range. Most things in the Matrix will sit still, allowing the decker to
decide when to move. Unfortunately, the things that do move—other
persona programs and gray or black |C—are the most dangerous.
Any utility can be used at contact range.

TORTOISES IN THE MATRIX

Not everyone working in the Matrix uses a cyberdeck to do his
job. For one thing, decks are expensive. For another, the corps
simply do not hand out Fuchi-4s to every keypuncher and file clerk
in the office.

 

SHADOWRUN 177
THE MATRIX

The Shadowrun equivalent of an old-fashioned terminal is a
keyboard with either a viewing screen or simple sensory electrodes
and maybe some antiquated paraphernalia like a mouse or joystick.
These terminals have the same basic stats as cyberdecks, but are not
cyberdecks (no Hacking Pool for these slowpokes).

On the positive side, black IC cannot hurt a terminal user. It can
only kick him off-line. Even more important, terminals cost only
one-tenth as much as an equivalent cyberdeck.

Tortoises reduce all their Program Ratings by 1, to reflect a lack
of fine control.

The terminals that tortoises use are locked into a Rating of 3 for
all persona programs.

MATRIX COMBAT

Matrix combat proceeds in turns and actions, just like combat in
the real world, and a turn in the Matrix is the same as a turn in the real
world, approximately three seconds. All activity uses the same
Combat Tum/Action sequence.

MATRIX INITIATIVE

Multiple actions are determined exactly as in physical combat,
described on p. 79.

Deckers roll 1D6 and add it to their Reaction Attribute. Remem-
ber that magical increases, wired reflexes, or vehicle control rigs do
not add dice to Initiative while the decker is in the Matrix. Deckers
with response increase on their decks add +2 per level of response
to their Reaction Attribute, and roll an extra 1 D6 per level for Initiative.

Deckers who are running on pure cybemetic command receive
an additional die for Initiative.

Deckers running on a combination of cybemetic command with
keyboard assistance determine Initiative normally.

Deckers running a cyberdeck with only keyboard commands
halve their Reaction Rating, receive no Reaction bonus from response
increase, but do get to roll the additional response increase Initiative
die, in addition to their standard 1D6.

Tortoises on a terminal halve their Reaction to a minimum of 1.
They still roll 1D6 for Initiative.

IC Reaction is based on the node’s Security Code and the rating
of the IC. The Security Code color gives a basic speed. Add the IC’s
Rating to this for the Reaction Time (see table below). Then make the
usual 1D6 roll.

IC REACTION TIME
Security Code Reaction Time
Not Applicable (no IC)

5 + Rating
7 + Rating
9 + Rating

 

Order of Initiative Resolution

In any one Action Phase where decking actions are mixed with
astral and or physical actions, all astral actions are resolved first, then
all decking actions, then all physical actions.

 

MATRIX ACTIONS
Following are typical possible actions in cyberspace.

Free Actions
Delay Action
Observe
Speak a Word

Simple Actions
Change Range (move from observation range, to sensor range,
to contact range, in any combination)
Erase Program
Execute System Operation (see Nodes, p. 166)
Jack Out! (requires Willpower Test against the rating of the black
IC)
Jam IC (see White IC, p. 169)
Load Programs (see Utility Programs, p. 174, and Load Speed,
p. 172)
Run Defense Utility (see Defense Utilities, p. 175)

Complex Actions

Execute Sensor Utility (use the Special Execution Test in Mask-
ing Utilities, p. 176)

Execute Utility (use the Execution Test, p. 174)

Run Complex Utility (combat or sensor utilities)

MATRIX COMBAT
The following describes Matrix combat and provides an over-
view of the steps that lead up to it.

1. Decker Declares Range

Once in the Matrix, the decker declares the range he is maintain-
ing to the various constructs and programs. Usually, this is observa-
tion range. To gain information about something in the Matrix, the
decker must close to sensor range.

A decker at observation range can move about freely.

2. Sensor Range

A decker enters sensor range in order to use a sensor utility
against a node or IC. Unless the system Is already on passive or active
alert, deckers are usually still safe at sensor range. If IC reacts, it will
close to within contact range of the persona.

A. Make Execution Test

The decker first makes an Execution Test for the sensor utility. If
the test is successful, the decker may run a program. If the test fails,
the decker may attempt it again, adding +2 to the target number.

Use any extra successes from the Execution Test to determine
the effect of sensor utilities run against a node. Sensor utilities must
also be run following a successful Execution Test to be effective
against IC.

B. Run Sensor Utility

Make a test with a number of dice equal to the program's rating
plus any Hacking Pool dice against a target number equal to the IC’s
Rating. Count the successes.

 

178 SHADOWRUN
THE MATRIX

C. IC Resistance Test
Roll a number of dice equal to the IC’s Rating against a target
number equal to the persona’s Evasion Rating. Count the successes.

D. Determine Result

Compare the successes from the persona’s sensor utility test
with the results of the IC’s test, but remember that the program must
beat the Security Code of the node as well. Additional successes in
excess of the IC successes and the Security Code are used to
determine the result.

3. Contact Range

A decker must be at contact range to use either a masking or
combat utility. Contact range is also required to transfer a file from or
to a computer system.

A. Execute Masking Utility

A masking utility uses the Special Execution Test described in
Masking Utilities. This requires a Complex Action. Successes in
excess of the total of the IC’s successes and the Security Code of the
node are used to determine the effects of the program.

B. Using a Combat Utility/Conducting an Attack

Combat utilities use the following procedure. Attacking IC uses
the same basic procedure.

*Execute the Combat Utility (persona attacking only)

Make a normal Execution Test. This requires a Complex Action.
See also Persona vs. Persona for important information.

Conduct the Attack

Number of Dice: Program rating, plus Hacking Pool dice (if
persona attacking) or the IC Rating (if IC is attacking)

Target Number: Node’s System Rating (ifIC), or Bod (if persona).
Roll anumber of dice equal to the program’s rating, plus dice from the
Hacking Pool (if a persona is attacking), or roll a number of dice equal
to the IC's Rating against a target number equal to the node’s System
Rating (if the target is IC) or the persona’s Bod (if the target is a
persona). Count the successes.

*Resolve the Resistance Test

Number of Dice: IC Rating dice (if IC), or MPCP dice if target is
a persona (plus that decker’s Hacking Pool dice, if used)

Target Number: Decker’s Computer Skill (if persona), or System
Rating of the node (if IC)

A target will resist the attack. Make a Resistance Test by rolling
a number of dice equal to the target's Rating if IC, or its MPCP Rating
if another persona, using the decker’s Computer Skill as the target
number if the attack came from a persona, or the System Rating of the
node as the target number if the attack came from IC. Count the
successes.

*Determine the Effect

Compare the number of successes each opponent achieved,
being sure to include the extra successes needed for the Security
Code of the node (for the persona’s attack only). IC need never worry
about Security Codes. The persona may ignore Security Codes when
resisting an attack.

The extra successes (the successes in excess of what was needed
to overcome the opponent) are used to determine the actual effect,
per the individual program or IC descriptions.

 

PERSONA VS. PERSONA

When one persona uses a utility on another decker, he must still
execute that utility. Instead of being executed in the node, however,
the program is executed in the opposing decker’s cyberdeck. The
target number for such an Execution Test is equal to the opposing
deck’s Evasion Rating, not the System Rating of the node.

In the above procedure, if one decker were attacking another,
the attacking decker would have to first execute the program in the
opposition’s deck (see Executing a Utility, but use the Evasion Rating
as the target number) and then conduct the attack against the
opposing persona.

A computer system never has to worry about executing its own
programs—IC always runs.

DAMAGING THE TARGET

Combat utilities and IC have different effects based on their
type. Each extra success generated beyond those used to over-
come the opposition generally increase the effect of the program by
1 point. Attack programs and blaster and killer IC all inflict 1
additional point of damage to the target per extra success; slow
programs reduce the target's Initiative total by one for each extra
success, and so on. Consult the individual utility or IC descriptions
for specifics.

All decks (specifically the persona/MPCP) and IC have Condition
Monitors to track damage. This Condition Monitor contains only one
track, as there is no difference between “physical” and “stun” damage
in the Matrix. As the Condition Monitor fills up, and each of the various
Condition Levels are reached, the persona or IC is subject to the
indicated target number and Reaction modifiers.

When the player fills in ten boxes on the Condition Monitor, the
persona or IC crashes. Crashed decks “dump” their user (see Exiting
the Matrix, p. 165.) Crashed IC is down for the count.

Crashed decks, once restarted after leaving the Matrix, are
restored to full “health,” unless some special effect of IC came into
play. See Blaster, p. 170.

AVOIDING COMBAT

A decker may attempt to avoid combat or disengage from
current combat. Combat can be avoided by simply staying clear of it,
moving into another node before it is too late, and so on.

Gray and black IC, as well as opposing deckers, will probably
pursue a fleeing opponent. As long as the fleeing decker remains
within one node of the pursuer (observation range), the pursuer can
easily follow. If the decker is able to move two or more nodes away,
the deck’s programs and abilities can be used to make good his
escape. When the IC or hostile decker pursues the character decker,
make a test using a number of dice equal to the IC’s Rating, or the
hostile decker/persona’s Sensor Attribute (no Hacking Pool), and
using the fleeing Persona’s Masking Rating as the target number. If
the IC or pursuing decker gets at least 1 success, they know exactly
where the decker went and will attempt to move there. If the test fails,
they have lost the trail, and will probably begin a node-by-node
search.

If the decker shakes the pursuing IC, and the IC rediscovers him,
the decker may use a sleaze or deceive program against the IC as
normal.

 

SHADOWRUN 179
CHAPTER ELEVEN

 

 

Never relax. Your run might be over, but someone, some-
where, is just starting his, and the target could be you.
—Kirk Hoff, street mage

his section is primarily the domain of the gamemaster, though players will also find
_ it helpful to read. As with all the Shadowrun rules, these are primarily guidelines.
If players and the gamemaster do not agree with the working of a particular rule,
' ormore important, how it feels, they are free to change it. No one is going to come
by their house late one night to find out if they are playing by the published rules.
We stopped doing that years ago.

DICEY SITUATIONS

 

As an adventure unfolds, players are going to want to use the skills and
Attributes of their characters to get things done: con their way past a guard, fix a
broken detonator before the trolls find their hiding place, or try to understand what
that corp-type who speaks only Japanese is saying to them. The gamemaster,
meanwhile, will want to know whether the player characters saw that all-important
clue or whether they inadvertently kicked it under the trash.

For many of these situations, gamemasters will have to rely on their own
judgment to decide which skills are needed for the situation, to determine the
target numbers and situation modifiers, and to interpret what a “success” means.
The following guidelines and rules will help resolve some of the more common
situations.

USING SOCIAL SKILLS
To influence a non-player character (NPC) through Social Skills, the player character
uses a mental statistic of the NPC as the base target number. If he or she is attempting

 

180 SHADOWRUN
BEHIND THE SCENES



SHADOWRUN 181
BEHIND THE SCENES

to influence a group of NPCs who have no designated leader, use the
average of their ratings. Groups tend to react as a whole, the reluctant
members being drawn along by the enthusiastic ones. Otherwise,
simply make all attempts against the leader of the pack (varooom).

The base target number is modified by circumstances accord-
ing to the Social Skill Modifiers Table, below.

Social Skills offer a prime opportunity to use extra successes as
a measure of accomplishment. Judge the exact effects according to
the specific circumstance.

SOCIAL SKILL TABLE
Situation Target Modifier
With respect to the character, the NPC is:
Friendly —2
Neutral +0
Hostile +4
An enemy +6

Suspicious +2
Player’s desired result is:

Advantageous to NPC —2

Of no value to NPC +0

Annoying to NPC +2

Harmful to NPC +4

Disastrous to NPC +6

Dodger wants to do some snooping at a local
Mitsuhama subsidiary. To get in, the elf tries, with a little
fast talk and a somewhat tattered ID card, to negotiate his
way past the gate guard. Dodger has a Negotiation Skill
Rating of 4. The elf uses the other chummer’s Mental
Attribute as his target number, in this case, the guard's
Intelligence of 3. The guard is suspicious (+2, it's his job
to be suspicious) and will be in trouble if he allows
unauthorized personnel into the compound (harmful to
him, +4), but the elf's got an ID card (the gamemaster
awards a special —1 for supporting evidence). That brings
the target number to 3 + 2 + 4-1, or 8.

Because of Dodger’s Negotiation Skill of 4, he rolls 4
dice and gets 6, 6, 6, and 4 (lucky pixie). The elf s got a
good line tonight. He re-rolls the three sixes and gets 2,
3, and 5. Adding each result to 6, he gets a final result of
8, 9, and 11, for a total of 3 successes. One would be
enough to get him past the guard, temporarily convincing
the poor fool that Dodger really is a Mitsuhama employee.
That wouldn't last long, though, because the guard is no
idiot. Unless distracted, he would begin to notice holes in
the elf's story. Because Dodger has 3 successes, the guard
is convinced enough to wait until the end of his shift
before checking his log book to see whether the ID was
valid (and because it wasn’t, setting off alarms). If the elf
had been skillful enough to get 5 successes, the guard
might never have twigged to the deception and might
not even have logged in Dodger’s presence.

 

 

RACISM AND CHARISMA

Charisma is the gut-reaction Attribute. It influences an NPC's
reaction to a character before any words are spoken or actions taken.
It is a reaction that comes with a character’s first glance across a
crowded room, out on the street, or in a dark alley.

Before a character can interact with an NPC, the gamemaster
must determine whether or not the NPC is racist. To find out, roll 2D6
and subtract 6. If the result is a positive number, then yes, the NPC is
racist. The number itself determines how racist the NPC is, in effect
creating Racism Points. (A roll of 9 gives a result of 3, meaning the NPC
has 3 Racism Points). Next, determine where the NPC’s bias lies. Roll
1D6 and consult the following table.

RACISM TABLE
Racial Bias
All, except own race
Humans

Elves
Dwarfs
Orks
Trolls

 

If the result is the NPC’s own race, ignore that result and continue
to roll 2D6 until two racial biases are indicated, or the result is all races.

An NPC with Racism of 3 against orks would have that listed as
Racism (Orks) +3 in the Notes section of the Character Record Sheet.

This information modifies the interaction numbers between a
character and an NPC in the following manner. When making a Social
Skill Test, as described in the previous section, add any Racism Points
the NPC harbors against the character's racial type to the Social Skill
target number. The character can offset these points by making a
Charisma Test against a target number (known only to the gamemaster)
equal to twice the NPC's racism. Each success generated counteracts
1 point of racism. Successes from this test do not directly help the
Social Skill Test; they are only used to offset Racism Points.

If the character is defaulting to Charisma for the Social Skill Test,
he may not make a separate Charisma Test to offset racism.

USING BUILD/REPAIR SKILLS

Characters performing a Build or Repair task are primarily
interested in how long it takes. A very successful character can reduce
that time. Divide the time specified for the operation by the number
of successes achieved to determine the total time required.

As a guideline to the time required to build things, find the price
of acomparable item on the Equipment Table, p. 254, and divide that
figure by one of the following numbers to get the typical time in hours.
Divide by 10 for armed-combat type items, by 20 for vehicles, and by
50 for electronics, cyberware, or other technical gear. Ordinary,
everyday equipment would have a Target Number 4. Fancy or
technical stuff gets a 6. The real exotics start at 8.

The following skills and skill groupings have corresponding
Build/Repair Skills or are Build/Repair Skills themselves: Aircraft,
Armed Combat, Biotech, Boats, Computer, Demolition, Electronics,
Firearms, Ground Vehicles, Gunnery, Projectile Weapons, Throwing

Weapons.

 

182 SHADOWRUN
BEHIND THE SCENES

BUILD/REPAIR TABLE
Target Number

Situation

Working Conditions:
Bad +2
Terrible +4
Superior -1

Tools are:
Unavailable Usually not allowed
Inadequate +2

Reference material available 0

Working from memory +(5 — Intelligence)

Dodger’s sweating hard, but he can’t feel it under the
water from the sprinkler system as he fumbles with the
soldering iron and probes (inadequate tools, +2) he
scrounged up. He wishes Grinder hadn't blasted the door
lock to keep the corp cops from coming through it behind
them. The runners need to go through it now, before the
whole place blows up in their faces. Between the sprinkler
system and the stress, the gamemaster decides that
Dodger is working in terrible conditions, and the water
from the sprinklers splashing on the circuits does not help
one bit (+4). To override a door control without a lock
would normally be a typical task (Target Number 4).
Dodger faces a Target Number of 4 + 2 + 4, or 10. He has
Electronic Skill of 4, and so he rolls 4 die for this test. The
results are a 3, 4, 5, and 6. The re-rolled 6 yields a 5, for
a total of 11, and Dodger breathes a sigh of relief.

VEHICLE OPERATION SKILL

Normal vehicle operation does not require any dice rolls.
Unless things are really bad, most people can safely operate a
vehicle for which they are trained without any problems. Unfortu-
nately, shadowrunners are not most people. They ask their vehicles
to do things that would make the most hardened driver's ed teacher
drop dead. When those situations come up, the gamemaster can
use the Handling Rating of the vehicle as a target number and apply
the following situation modifiers.

These modifiers apply only to non-combat situations.

VEHICLE OPERATION TABLE
Situation Target Number Modifier
Complex controls +1
Unfamiliar vehicle
Nonstressful situation +1
Stressful situation +3
Large vehicle of type +2

Very large vehicle of type +3
Bad conditions +2
Terrible conditions +4

Rigger in control —(VCR Level x 2)

 

 

 

 

Whiz Kid's a rigger. He's also into aircraft, helos to be
exact. He’s got Rotor Skill of 6. Being a rigger, he has
concentrated on Remote Operation and specialized in
Fixed-rotor. He can operate any fixed-rotor aircraft, re-
motely or jacked in, at a rating of 8.

Whiz Kid's Ares Dragon has hit a sudden squall and
he decides to land before it gets worse. The chopper is big
(+2) and the squall makes for bad conditions (+2). With his
Vehicle Control Rig Rating of 1 he gets a—2. Too bad he’s
never flown a Dragon before (+ 1), but least he’s not under
fire. His target number is the Dragon's Handling Rating of
5, plus the modifiers, for a final Target Number of 8. Whiz
Kid rolls a 1, 2, 3, 3, 5, 6, 6, and 6. Re-rolling the three
sixes, he gets 1,1, and 4, fora final result of 1, 2, 3, 3, 5,
7, 7, and 10. The last 1 saves his butt because it gives him
one success. The Dragon sets down safely.

USING KNOWLEDGE SKILLS

Does the player know the capital of Tir Tairngire? What about
the metals that make up orichalcum? What are the normal operat-
ing parameters of a smartlink and why does this chipped ork, who
the player just offed, have something that seems to work differ-
ently? Players may not know this information, but their characters
might. Below is a list of suggested target numbers and a Success
Table for using the various Knowledge Skills.

KNOWLEDGE SKILL TABLE
Target Number

Situation

Character is seeking:
General knowledge 3
Detailed knowledge 5
Intricate knowledge 8
Obscure knowledge 2

Number of
Successes

Result

General knowledge, no details
Detailed information, with some mi-
nor points inaccurate

Detailed information, with some mi-
nor points obscure or missing
Detailed and accurate information

 
EHIND THE SCENES

Fastjack has never had much use for magic, but he
knows science (Physical Sciences Skill 6). He got his hands
ona strange, white rock and he wants to know what it is.
The gamemaster, who knows that the object is a piece of
metamorphosed flesh, secretly sets the Target Number at
12 because the rock is not natural and because magical
workings are not common knowledge, especially to
Fastjack. Fastjack rolls his dice and manages to get 2
successes, which is not enough to learn the whole story.
The gamemaster informs Jack that his analysis tells him
that the rock is a metamorphic carbonate of unusual
structure, possibly a fossil, because of the presence of
some apparently biological structures.

USING LANGUAGE SKILLS

When using languages, failure to achieve the required number
of successes usually means that the attempted communication was
only partially successful, and possibly misunderstood, to the
character's detriment. The gamemaster may want to make any
required die rolls himself, so that the players will not know whether
or not what they intended to say got across.

LANGUAGE SKILLS TABLE
Situation Target Number
Speaking dialect +2
(variation of a particular language)
Universal concept 2
(hunger, fear, bodily functions)
Basic conversation

(concerns of daily life)
Complex subject

(special/limited interest topics)
Intricate subject

(almost any technical subject)
Obscure subject

(deeply technical/rare knowledge)

A beautiful elven woman comes running up to Dodger,
babbling something in Elvish. His knowledge of the .
language is minimal (Elvish 2). He rolls his 2 dice and gets
two sixes. As it turns out, these are successes, and so he
understands that she is looking for help because someone
is following her (Complex Subject, Target Number 6).
When she tries to explain just who it is and why they want
her (Intricate Subject, Target Number 8), the convolutions
become too much for Dodger (he rolls a 2 and a 5) and he
loses the sense of what she is saying. Still, she is a maiden
in distress, and he must help her!

 

 

 

USING EQUIPMENT

As listed in the Equipment Table, p. 254, most Shadowrun
equipment carries a rating, but the ratings are generally unimpor-
tant. The equipment does what it does, unless some other piece of
equipment opposes it. A good example of this action-counterac-
tion is a radio transmitter and a jammer. As long as the radio
transmission is unopposed, it works fine and no tests are necessary.
If a jammer is also being operated, the equipment must also make
a test to see whether it overcomes the transmitter. Each piece of
equipment uses its own rating for the number of dice to roll, and the
rating of the opposing piece of equipment as the target number.
Ties have no result; the device that was activated first remains
active. This equipment rating is the item's ECM/ECCM (electronic
countermeasures/electronic counter-countermeasures) Rating.

Equipment that does not normally have such a rating (like
cyberware radios) can be upgraded to include rating points of ECM/
ECCM. Simply multiply the list cost by the ECM/ECCM Rating
installed. Use this rating for any tests the gamemaster must make
for the equipment.

Equipment listed with a base cost in nuyen are assumed to have
an ECM/ECCM Rating of 1 . Ifthe purchaser wishes to acquire the piece
of equipment at Rating 0 (no ECM/ECCM, and opposing equipment
automatically dominates), then multiply the base cost by .75.

Items acquired at a higher than ECM/ECCM Rating 1 add that
value to the Availability of the item (see below).

Availability

Availability determines how easy it is to acquire a particular
item, and how long it takes to do so. Associated with Availability
is the Street Index, which affects the price of the item if purchased
through the shadow or gray markets.

Both numbers are intended as guidelines for the gamemaster,
who should make adjustments to these values based on the
particular campaign and the specifics of the situation.

When a character wishes to purchase something that is legal
and generally available, he can do so, unless the gamemaster has
some reason for wishing to limit access to that item. Some legal
items have Availability Codes that reflect their limited supply but
that do not necessarily imply that these items must be purchased
through “other means.”

To obtain the desired item, the character contacts the source,
usually a fixer, though this may vary (a Mr. Johnson, for instance,
might have access to a piece of relevant technology). For this
Acquisition Test, the gamemaster rolls a number of dice equal to
either the source’s relevant Special Skill (such as the fixer contact’s
“Equipment Acquisition” Skill) or the standard Etiquette Skill (Street,
Corporate, and so on), adding +2, against the first value of the
Availability Code, which serves as the target number. For certain
items, especially those with a variable rating, the gamemaster may
wish to increase the Acquisition target number by | for every 2
rating points of the item.

Divide the resulting number of successes from this roll into the
base time it takes to obtain the item, which is the second part of the
Availability Code (to the right of the slash). This part of the code
appears in hours (“hrs”) days, and months (“mths”).The base time
divided by the number of successes achieved provides the actual
time it takes for the source to locate the item. Halfway through this

 

184 SHADOWRUN
BEHIND THE SCENES

period, the source actually finds out that the item is available and
contacts the buyer. If the gamemaster (the source) rolls no suc-
cesses, the item is not available at this time.

When the source contacts the buyer, a Negotiation Test should
be made. The character rolls his Negotiation Skill dice (or Charisma
or related Skill Web default) against a target number equal to the
source’s Willpower Rating. The source does the same, using the
character’s Willpower Rating as its target number. The price of the
item is equal to the Cost multiplied by the Street Index. Whoever
generates the most successes (Source or buyer) may adjust the price
in their favor by 5 percent for every success they rolled above the
opposition’s success total.

If the buyer cannot, or will not, pay the resulting price, the deal
is off. If the buyer agrees to pay, the item shows up at the time
indicated and a meet is arranged to exchange the item for the
money.

Ifa piece of equipment with an ECM/ECCM Rating greater than
1 is being purchased, the Availability of that item should be
increased appropriately, and the Street Index increased by .1 per
rating point.

HAULING THE LOAD

Players have a tendency to equip their characters with every
conceivable item, from assualt cannons to toasters, along with
enough ammunition and bread to keep them operating continu-
ously for five years. If the players’ equipment seems to be getting
a bit out of hand, the gamemaster can impose the following
Encumbrance rules.

A character can carry up to his Strength x 5 in kilograms
without appreciable effect.

Twice that load (Strength x 10 kg) will leave the character ina
state equivalent to Lightly Wounded on the Stun Condition Monitor
(see p. 111).

A character carrying three times the load (Strength x 15 kg) is
Moderately fatigued, cannot run, and his movement is cut in half.

Four times the load (Strength x 20 kg) makes the character
Seriously fatigued, he cannot run, and his movement is cut to one-
quarter the normal rate. Any heavier load makes the character pass
out from exertion.

If the character is only trying to lift a load, but not carry it, he
may add (Strength)D6 kilograms to his maximum load (Strength x
20 kg). A character can only hold this weight for a number of turns
equal to his Body, however. Any longer increases the character's
Stun Condition Level by one level per turn.

PERCEPTION

The gamemaster usually keeps the player informed of obvious
information about the character's surroundings. But what about the
not-so-obvious information? Like whether or not that corp-type suit
over there is packing heat. Or whether the character can hear that
sneaky elf coming up the alley behind him. Or smell the chromed
ork hiding under an invisibility spell.

To determine what a character is aware of in such situations,
the gamemaster tests the character’s perception. He uses the
character’s Intelligence Rating for the number of dice to roll; the
target number will depend on the circumstances.

An individual making a Perception Test should roll the dice as

 

 

described above. The gamemaster may want to make one Percep-
tion Test for the entire team, but this should not be done when
surprise is possible (as described on p. 86 of Combat). For a group
Perception Test, find the average Intelligence Rating for the team
and roll that many dice plus an additional die for each member of
the team.

A Perception Test can be made for any situation that involves
one of the five senses; sight, hearing, smell, touch, and taste. Set the
base Target Number at 4 and use the Perception Test Modifiers
Table to determine appropriate modifiers. The table is not meant to
cover every situation, but merely to offer some guidelines.

Some things, like the Concealability of guns, have specific
numbers assigned to them, as listed in the Equipment Table in the
Gear section of the rules, p. 254. The Perception Test should be
made against that number.

A single success indicates that someone has noticed some-
thing. Consult the Perception Success Table to determine other
levels of success.

PERCEPTION TEST MODIFIERS TABLE
Situation Modifier
Perceiver is distracted +2
Sight

Very small object +6
Object partially hidden +2
Object brightly colored —2
Action very obvious 4
Action not obvious +4
Visibility modifiers see Visibility
Table, p. 89,
Combat
Sound
Single gunshot
Silenced single gunshot
Burst fire
Sound-suppressed burst fire
Full autofire
Sound-suppressed autofire
Grenade blast
A person's yell
Sound is rooms away +2
Sound is on same floor +4
Sound is floors away +6
Perceiver has active sound
enhancements Rating, or —2
Smell
Odor obvious 4
Other odors present +2
Touch
Temperature extreme (hot or cold) -—4
Perceiver wearing gloves +2
Taste
Taste obvious 4
Perceiver has a cold +2

 

 

SHADOWRUN 185
Mag Migs. *
Wt, 4 NX g
Mii, Pid
Peas Oey, S

PERCEPTION SUCCESS TABLE
Successes Resulting Perception
1 That something is there, but little else.
2 Something is definitely there, and the per-
ceiver suspects the kind of thing it is.

3 The perceiver knows what kind of thing itis,
and suspects its exact nature.
The perceiver knows what it is, but has no
specifics without further information or ex-
amination.

DISEASES AND TOXINS

Toxins (drugs and poisons) and diseases can do damage from
which a character may recover normally. Many also have side
effects that affect the character as long as the nasty stuff is active. As
the disease or toxin runs its course through the character's body,
some of these side effects may only manifest at certain stages.

Countermeasures to toxins and diseases are called antidotes.
These will increase the victim's dice by their rating for the Body Test
if no damage has yet been done. If the patient has gone down
(Deadly Damage Level) from the effects of a nasty, the injection of
the correct antidote counts as professional attention. See Deadly
Wounds and First Ald, p. 115.

Many vaccines can be administered before a character is
exposed to a disease or drug. These provide immunity to the toxin,
and so the character is not required to resist the damage at all.

Diseases and toxins are rated for the damage they do and the
speed with which they take effect.

The speed factor determines how soon after exposure the
victim will have to resist damage. For toxins, this is usually
immediately, but the time period can be hours or even days for
diseases. The victim must use a Body Test to resist again if that time
period elapses again and he is still in contact with the toxin, or still
infected by the disease. Some kind of technological or medical



attention must be given during this period.

The description of the disease or toxin will specify any side
effects or symptoms and include notes about how the nasty stuff
gets into the victim's system and any special treatments that might
be necessary.

To resist diseases and toxins requires making a Body Test using
the Power of the attack as the target number. Every 2 successes
reduces the Damage Level.

Toxins

Neuro-stun Vill

Damage: 6S Stun Speed: 1 turn

Description: Delivered as a gas in an organic binder, N-S VIII takes
effect if inhaled, or on contact with the skin. At the end of the tum
during which a character is exposed to N-S VIII, he suffers Stun
damage. Even if he resists this, he suffers disorientation for about an
hour, adding +2 to all target numbers.

Narcoject

Damage: 6D Stun Speed: Instantaneous

Description: Injected. Can be used in drug darts, because a touch
is sufficient to inject. No side effects.

Fugu-5

Damage: 3D Speed: Instantaneous

Description: Injected or eaten. This is a hyped-up version of one of
the deadliest neurotoxins in nature. No side effects if the character
resists.

Diseases

VITAS-3

Damage: 6D Speed: 12 hours

Description: Aerosol virus transmitted by close contact or by
infected person sharing confined space with another person. After
the incubation period, fever, chills, and vomiting occur until dam-
age is reduced to Light.

 

186 SHADOWRUN
BEHIND THE SCENES

NON-PLAYER CHARACTERS

The gamemaster can use the various archetypes and contacts
provided in this book for the non-player characters (NPCs) with
whom the player characters interact during the course of the game.
Often, the game statistics presented for the archetype or contact
will work as published and require no modification. Most times,
however, the stats will need modification to better suit the particu-
lar character or situation.

The system provided for creating a character, p. 40, is not the
best way to generate an appropriate NPC. That system is designed
to create starting player characters, not non-player characters of
varying experience levels. The main difference is that NPCs need
not be balanced to anything beyond the gamemaster’s needs for
the story. The attributes, skills, abilities, and gear of the NPC should
be tailored to the story, not to a creation system.

If a gamemaster would like to use a system to create experi-
enced NPCs, the following formula may be helpful: Use the charac-
ter creation system provided, but for every two years of experience
the NPC has, increase the Attribute, Skill, or Resource values by 10
percent. For non-player characters that have been around the block
more than a few times (in the biz longer than 10 years), increase the
values by 10 percent for every 4 years beyond 10. The appropriate
values of a character in the business for 25 years would increase by
50 percent for the first 10 years, and then another 30 percent for the
next 15 years (not quite 16 years, so not 40 percent), for a
cumulative 80 percent increase.

Another way to create experienced, or, perhaps more appro-
priately, more dangerous NPCs is to use Threat Ratings.

THREAT RATINGS

Threat Ratings are a simple way to increase an NPC’s toughness
without going through extensive character-creation back-flips.
Each point of Threat Rating gives the NPC an extra die for any tests,
offensive or defensive. Threat Rating dice are not the same as a Dice
Pool; Threat dice are always available and need not refresh. A
number of dice equal to the Threat Rating is available for multiple
tests within a Combat Phase. If using Threat Ratings, do not use
standard Dice Pools for that non-player character.

No clear-cut way exists to determine the amount of Threat
Rating an NPC should have, as Shadowrun offers no easy means to
determine the relative toughness of characters. The two possible
angles of attack are:

1. Base the Threat Rating on the Skill Success Table, p. 68 of the
Skills. Use the adjective in the first column (Difficulty) to describe
the NPC’s “threat level,” then use the target number from the
second column as the Threat Rating.

2. Give the NPC a Threat Rating related to the team’s total Team
Karma (see Karma, p. 190), at a ratio of 1 point of Threat Rating per
100 Karma points earned, for example.

Each gamemaster will probably need to experiment to find the
most effective way to assign Threat Ratings.

The Threat Rating is not added to Initiative dice for the purpose
of determining the NPC's Initiative. Use the standard Reaction plus
Initiative dice formula.

Threat Rating dice should be treated as Combat Pool dice for
determining a clean miss. See Combat Pool, p. 84.

 

NPC ACTIONS

Non-player characters are rated by their professionalism and
how well their courage holds up under fire. NPCs can be rated as
Average, Semi-Trained, Trained, and Professional. The NPC’s Pro-
fessionalism Rating determines how long after he is injured a
character will remain in a fight. The gamemaster should take the
NPC's level of professionalism into consideration when that charac-
ter gets into a fight, but should never feel constrained by it.

Average Non-Player Characters (Rating 1)

Average NPCs are untrained and unfamiliar with combat
situations. They tend to react poorly, slowly, and without a plan.
Examples of non-player character types with a Professionalism
Rating of Average are pedestrians, wage slaves, and so on.

Average NPCs will withdraw from a fight or else stop fighting
immediately after they receive a Light wound. The gamemaster
may choose to make a Willpower (4) Test for the character to
determine whether or not he is able to steel his will and remain in
the fight.

Semi-Trained Non-Player Characters (Rating 2)

Semi-trained characters have some training and/or combat
experience. They will remain in a fight until the situation is obviously
no longer going their way. They tend to act in a deliberate manner
and with a plan, but do not have the cool head of the true
professional. Some examples of character types with a Profession-
alism Rating of Trained are street cops, low-ranking corporate
security guards, and the like.

Semi-trained characters will withdraw from a fight or else stop
fighting immediately after they receive a Moderate wound. The
gamemaster may choose to make a Willpower (4) Test to determine
whether or not the character is able to steel his will and remain in
the fight.

Trained Non-Player Characters (Rating 3)

Trained characters have received special combat training and,
in general, know what they are doing. They are not stupid and will
not take foolish chances. Some examples of character types with a
Professionalism Rating of Trained are bodyguards, mercenaries,
ranking or experienced street cops, corporate security guards, and
so on.

Trained characters will withdraw from a fight or else stop
fighting immediately after they receive a Serious wound. The
gamemaster may choose to make a Willpower (4) Test to determine
whether or not the character is able to steel his will and remain in
the fight.

Professional Non-Player Characters (Rating 4)

Professional non-player characters live for combat. They will
remain in a fight till the bitter end, or until personal motivation
dictates otherwise. Examples of character types with a Professional
Rating are any shadowrunner, elite law enforcement or security
characters, or important non-player characters (gamemaster judg-
ment).

 

SHADOWRUN 187
BEHIND THE SCENES

FENCING THE LOOT

A character’s got an optical chip full of hot data, fresh off some
corp’s database. As an added bonus, the character nailed some
exec’s limo, and has the ordnance from half a squad of bodyguards
in the trunk. How does he get rid of it all?

If the team has a prearranged deal for disposing of loot, then
ignore these rules. If they have a pile of stuff and nowhere to sell it,
then it’s time to find a fence. The fence could easily be one of their
regular street contacts, like a fixer or a talismonger, depending on
what the runners have to sell.

FINDING A FENCE

Finding a fence requires a successful Etiquette (Street) Test. The
base Target Number is 4, modified per the situations on the Finding
a Fence Table.

FINDING A FENCE TABLE

Situation
Using a regular contact
Disposing of standard gear

Disposing of hi-tech or other important loot
Disposing of hot loot

While being sought by police +1
While being sought by a corp or organized crime +2
Magical loot (foci, spell formulae, and so on) +2

THE LOOT

Most fences will buy loot that is easy to dispose of before taking
on the fancy stuff. A fence typically prefers to buy in the following
order:

Standard gear, including weapons, clothing, armor, vehicles,
jewelry, credit balances (money), and so forth.

Hi-tech loot, including ordinary data, equipment, research
files, and such.



 

Hot loot, including unique items, specific datafiles, proto-
types, procedurals for new processes, magical items, or anything
that belonged to a big, big boy and Is irreplaceable.

If a team is working together to find a fence, roll a number of
dice equal to the average Etiquette (Street) Rating for the group
looking for the fence plus 1 die for each member against the
modified target number (determined by adding or subtracting the
situation modifier from the Finding a Fence Table to the base Target
Number of 4). All the characters who contribute their Etiquette
(Street) Rating to the total must attend the meeting at which the loot
will be sold. If one or more of them cannot show, the fence will get
nervous and skip the meet.

Successes achieved on the roll to find a fence can be used in
two ways.

Hustle It Along

It takes a base time of 10 days to locate a fence and set up a
meet. Characters may allocate successes to reduce this time (to a
minimum of 1 day). Each day spent looking for a fence increases the
chances that the former owners of the merchandise will learn that
the player characters are trying to move it. At the end of each day,
the gamemaster rolls a number of dice equal to the days spent
searching against a Target Number of 6. Even 1 success means the
bad guys are on to them. If the gamemaster thinks the bad guys
would hunt down the team, he can set up an ambush at the meet.

Financing the Fence

Fences have limited means; they are just ordinary business-
men, trying to tum a dishonest nuyen. Instead of using their
successes to reduce the time required to find a fence, the team can
allocate successes to increase the fence’s bankroll. The gamemaster
secretly rolls 2 dice and multiplies the result by 100,000¥ to
determine the base bankroll. He then multiplies the base amount by
the number of successes the team allocates to the fence’s bankroll
to get the total amount of money the fence will have available for
their meet. Of course, this total does not represent the amount of
money the fence is going to spend, just how much he has available.

THE MEET

A meet can take place anywhere. Once the meet isin progress,
make a Negotiation Test between any one character and the fence.
Roll a number of dice equal to each opponent's Negotiation Skill,
using the other’s Willpower Rating as the target number. Naturally,
both sides are suspicious of the other, adding an automatic +2
modifier to the target number. The gamemaster sets the ratings for
the fence.

The base price for any loot is 30 percent of its actual value, as
listed in the Equipment Table, p. 254. For other loot, the gamemaster
sets the prices.

Whichever side wins the Negotiation Test alters the price paid
by 5 percent per extra success. If the fence won, the percentage
paid will not drop below 10 percent. If the team won, the percent-
age of the actual cost paid will not rise above 50 percent.

The fence will almost certainly bring enough muscle along to
forestall any unscrupulous business practices the team may con-
sider. If the original owners of the loot are coming after it, they will
show up at the meet as well.

 
BEHIND THE SCENES

LIFESTYLES OF THE RICH AND
SHADOWY

Even though it may sometimes seem that many Shadowrun
characters live in a bar, that is not so. Each character has a unique
lifestyle, and the following information can be used to flesh out
events that might occur in his life in between adventures. Most
important is the effect a character's lifestyle has on healing, de-
scribed at the end of the Combat chapter, p. 113.

Lifestyle measures the quality of the character's daily life and
his or her living expenses, including shelter, food, entertainment,
clothing, and so on. It does not cover technical resources, weapons,
magical equipment, professional hirelings, or other major imper-
sonal items. The player and the gamemaster can also make other
decisions about interesting details of the character's lifestyle.

Almost infinite variations are available. For example, a character
might live in an abandoned building, but install enough conveniences
to qualify as having a Luxury lifestyle. Keeping all those gadgets
running, buying security, maintaining water supplies, and keeping a
low profile will cost as much as a mansion in a ritzy neighborhood.

A character living a Middle lifestyle or higher can support
guests at a rate of 10 percent above his own cost of living per guest.
A host can also keep a guest at a lower lifestyle than his own by
paying 10 percent of the lower cost of the guest's lifestyle. Servants
are often maintained in this manner.

LUXURY

This lifestyle offers the best of everything: spacious, ritzy digs,
lots of hi-tech toys, the best food, drink, and you-name-it. The
character has a household staff or a maid service or gadgets to do the
mundane chores. He has a powerful car, maybe even a hot sports
model or a chauffeured limo. Whether it’s a big house, a snazzy condo, or
the penthouse in a top hotel, this is the life for the high-stakes winners
in the business: top executives, government big shots, high-level
yakuza, and the shadowrunners who pull off the big scores.
Cost: 100,000¥ a month and up-up-up!

HIGH

A High lifestyle offers a roomy house or condo, good food, and
the tech that makes life easy. So what if the character does not have
the same perks as the big boys, but neither does he have as many
people gunning for him. His home is in a secure zone or protected
by some good solid bribes to the local police contractor and gang
boss. There is a housekeeping service or enough tech to take care
of most chores. A luxury commuter car is at his beck and call. This
is the life for the well-to-do on either side of the law: mid-level
managers, senior yakuza, and the like.
Cost: 10,000¥ a month

MIDDLE

The Middle lifestyle is not the best of everything, but is far from
the worst. It offers a nice house or condo with lots of comforts. So
characters eat some nutrisoy as well as natural food, but at least the
autocook has a full suite of flavor faucets. Characters also have a
commuter car or first-class tube pass. This is the lifestyle of ordinary
successful wage-eamers or criminals.
Cost: 5,000¥ a month

 

LOW

With this lifestyle, the character has an apartment, and nobody
is likely to bother him much if he keeps the door bolted. Meals are
regular. The nutrisoy may not taste great, but at least it’s hot. And
power and water are available during their area’s assigned rationing
periods. When those of the Low lifestyle travel, they ride the tube.
Factory workers, petty crooks, and other folks stuck in a rut, just
starting out, or kind of down on their luck tend to show up here.
Cost: 1,000¥ a month

SQUATTER

Life stinks and most of the time, so does the character. He eats
low-grade nutrisoy and yeast, adding the flavors with an eyedropper.
His home is a made-over building, converted into barracks, divided
into closet-sized rooms, or maybe he just rents out a coffin-sized
sleep tank by the night. The only thing worse than the Squatter
lifestyle is living out on the streets.
Cost: 100¥ a month

STREETS

The character lives on the streets! Or in the sewers, steam
tunnels, condemned buildings, or whatever flop he or she finds for
the night. Food is where he finds it, bathing is a thing of the past,
and the only security is what he creates for himself. The bottom of
the ladder, inhabited by down-and-outers of all stripes.
Cost: Hey, chummer. Life ain't all bad: it’s free.

HOSPITALIZED

This is a special lifestyle, applicable only when a character is
sick or injured. The character is confined to a hospital, be it a real
one, a clinic equipped as a hospital, or a private location with the
necessary equipment installed. Characters cannot own this lifestyle.
They only pay for it until they get well or go broke, whichever comes
first.
Cost: 500¥ a day for basic care. 1,000¥ a day for intensive care.

KEEPING UP THE PAYMENTS

Characters have to shell out the nuyen each month to keep up
a lifestyle. If they miss a payment, they may end up in debt and
living a lower lifestyle.

Each month that a character misses a payment, roll 1 die. If the
result is greater than the number of consecutive months of pay-
ments missed, no sweat. The missed payment is absorbed by the
character's credit, which is part of the cost of his lifestyle. If he makes
the next payment, everything is fine again.

If the die roll result is less than or equal to the number of missed
months, the character is in trouble. His lifestyle gets downgraded
to the next lower level. This means being evicted from his former
home, having some of his tech repossessed, having to hock some
clothes, and so on.

The character is also in debt, and owes somebody one
month’s cost of his former lifestyle. If the character is mostly legit,
he’s in debt to a credit company. If the character is a criminal or
shadow person or now lives a lifestyle lower than Middle, being
in debt may mean that he or she has defaulted on less-formal
financial obligations. This can lead to earnest discussions with
large persons on the subject of debt management. After the

 

SHADOWRUN 189
BEH

character gets out of the hospital, the loan can be paid back. And
it had better be paid back. There's always a good market for fresh
body parts. “Taking [a debt] out of your hide” takes on a whole
new meaning in the year 2053.

BUYING A LIFESTYLE

A character can permanently buy a given lifestyle by making a
Payment equal to 100 months’ upkeep. Ten million nuyen buys a
permanent life of luxury. This represents investments, trust funds,
and so on, that take care of payments. Admittedly, there is not
much reason to spend 10,000¥ buying a permanent lifestyle as a
squatter, though it might be useful if the character wants to maintain
a getaway or hideout somewhere.

Nothing in life is certain, however. A character can lose a
permanent lifestyle through an enemy’s action or through sheer
bad luck. A decker can rip investments to shreds, or enemies can
simply blow holdings into scrap. These things depend on the way
the character's story unfolds, not on how much is on his credstick
at the time.

A permanent lifestyle of Middle or better can be sold. If the
character has a couple of months to broker a legitimate deal, roll 2
dice. Multiply the result by 10 percent to determine how much of
the purchase price the character is paid for the property. If the
character is a shadow person, i.e., lacking aSIN, roll only 1 die. Also
roll only 1 die if the character has to dump the property fast or
through an agent because he is on the run.



KARMA

In Shadowrun, Karma measures the experience characters get
when they go out on an adventure. They do not get Karma for doing
the laundry, unless the laundromat is in an urban combat zone.
Karma is used to improve Attributes, skills, and special resources.

Karma is awarded at the end of an adventure, but not neces-
sarily after a single playing session. The gamemaster decides who
gets Karma and how much they get. Every character in a group
receives Karma for some things, but some awards go only to
individuals.

Each surviving member of a team gets Karma for staying alive,
succeeding at a mission, and for the degree of danger in the
mission.

Individual characters can pick up additional Karma for good
roleplaying, gutsy fighting, smart planning, sheer luck, and other
personal feats.

Of the Karma a character gets, 90 percent of it becomes Good
Karma, which is used over the long term for improving the
character. Ten percent goes into the character's Karma Pool, which
is used in the short term for general butt-saving. A character's Good
Karma and Karma Pool are tracked separately. Always round off in
favor of Good Karma.

GOOD KARMA

Good Karma is used between adventures to improve character
ratings or gain benefits. A character can increase Physical and
Mental Attributes 1 point by paying anumber of Good Karma Points
equal to the rating to which the Attribute is being raised. Raising a
Strength of 5 to 6 would cost 6 Good Karma Points.

Attribute Ratings cannot normally exceed the character's racial
maximum. However, if the gamemaster agrees, payingdouble the
Good Karma Points can raise the Attribute above the racial maxi-
mum. For example, a human character who wanted to raise her
Strength from 6 to 7 would have to spend 14 Good Karma Points
to do so. The gamemaster should probably discourage players from
raising a character's Attributes to beyond 1.5 x the racial maximum.

Good Karma can also raise Attributes that have been reduced
for some reason. Though it is NEVER possible to use Karma to
directly raise Reaction, Essence, and Magic, Reaction may change
if Quickness or Intelligence is improved.

Skills

Skill Ratings can also be raised using Good Karma. Once the
Karma has been paid, the Skill Rating goes up 1 point.

Once the character has begun the game, improvements in
general skills, Concentrations, and Specializations all happen sepa-
rately. Increasing a general skill does not automatically change the
Concentration, and so on.

GOOD KARMA COST FOR SKILLS
General skills

2 x New Rating
1.5 x New Rating
1 x New Rating
1 x New Rating

Concentrations
Specializations

Languages

 

 

190 SHADOWRUN
BEHIND THE SCENES

Iris has specialized in Firearms Skill. Her current
ratings are Firearms 1, Pistols 3, and Beretta 101T, her
chosen weapon, of 5.

Raising her general Firearms Skill from 1 to 2 costs 4
Karma Points.

Raising her Pistols skill from 3 to 4 costs 6 Karma
Points.

Raising her Beretta 101T skill from 5 to a Specializa-
tion 6 costs 6 Karma Points.

New Concentrations are based on the existing general skill
score. If the character has Firearms 4 and wants to concentrate with
Pistols at 5, the Concentration would cost 5 x 1.5, or8 Karma Points.

New Specializations are based on the existing Concentration
score. If the character does not have an appropriate Concentration,
use the general skill. Thus, if the character only wants to improve
with the Remington Roomsweeper, the Specialization would cost
5 x 1, or 5 Karma Points, to reach Rating 5 in that specialized skill.

New skills cost 1 point of Good Karma for the first rating point.

A Hermetic magician must have unrestricted access to a
sorcery library with a rating equal to, or greater than, the Sorcery
Skill rating he wishes to acquire.

KARMA POOL

One-tenth (round up) of all Karma earned goes into the
character's Karma Pool. The character can draw from it as needed
during an encounter, but once the Karma Pool is emptied, it is no
longer available for that encounter. The full value of the Karma Pool
returns with the next encounter. (What constitutes an encounter?
A single scene or event in the story. It might be a single location or
several closely related areas. A running gun-battle might be a single
encounter, or it might be a series of them. If the runners have time
to catch their breath, it usually means a new scene, or encounter,
has begun.)

Points from the Karma Pool can be used a number of ways.

Re-rolling Failures

A character can use 1 point from the Karma Pool to re-roll any
test dice that failed. For example, the player rolls 4 dice and scores
2 successes. For | point of Karma, he can roll those 2 failed dice
again. This process can be repeated, but each time it is done on a
single test the Karma cost goes up by 1, until all the dice are
successes or the character runs out of Karma.

Avoid an “Oops”

The Rule of One can be partially avoided. If all the character's
dice come up 1, it usually means a disastrous failure. Paying 1 point
of Karma does not allow a re-roll, but does turn the disaster into a
simple failure. Additional Karma cannot be spent on the failure.

Buy Additional Dice

A character may spend 1 point of Karma to buy an additional
die for use in a test, up to a maximum of however many skill,
Attribute, or rating dice are in use, not including other Pool dice.
These karmic dice score, and are used, normally.

 

Buying Successes

It is also possible to purchase raw success at a cost of 1 Karma
Point per success, but on two hefty conditions. First, the character
has to generate at least 1 success normally through the test. No
natural, regular successes, no karmic successes. Second, Karma
Pool dice spent to buy a success are gone (pffft!) forever, expended
permanently. The do not refresh with the pool in the next scene.
Replacement Karma must be earned.

Adding to the Team Karma Pool

A character can permanently transfer points from his Karma
Pool to the Team Karma Pool. These points are gone for good, even
if the character later leaves the team. (What's a Team Karma Pool?
Read on!)

TEAM KARMA

Just as a character has a Karma Pool, so does a Shadowrun
team. Members of the team contribute points from their personal
Karma Pools to the Team Karma Pool. Points from the Team Karma
Pool can then be used exactly like points from a personal Karma
Pool, but by any member of the team.

The Team Karma Pool refreshes every scene or encounter, in
the same way as a personal Karma Pool. Any points from the Team
Karma Pool used to buy successes are permanently lost, just as they
are from a character’s own Karma Pool.

When a team agrees to become a team, they make a list of the
members, and each member must contribute at least 1 point of
Karma from his or her own Karma Pool to the Team Karma Pool.
Additional points can be added to the Team Karma Pool between
scenes or encounters, or between adventures.

Points may not be removed from the Team Karma Pool unless
one of the team members chooses to leave the team, or is asked to
leave by the other members. In that case, one-half of the current
Karma Points are removed from the Team Karma Pool. The depart-
ing character does not take these points with him, and if that
character ever rejoins the team, he must add new Karma to the Pool.
Those lost points do not reappear.

When a new member joins the team, he or she must pay the
initial 1 point of Team Karma.

No Team Karma is lost when a team member dies, and a
replacement for that character is treated as a new character.

A character can be part of more than one shadowrunning team,
but each team that character belongs to subtracts from the value of
his Team Karma contributions. The actual value of a Team Karma
contribution is equal to the number of Karma Pool points trans-
ferred, minus the number of additional teams the character is a part
of. Ifa character is part of two teams, it costs that character 2 Karma
Pool points to contribute 1 point of Team Karma to either team.

Points can only be drawn from the Team Karma Pool if a
majority of team members agree to do so. All the characters of the
team need not be present in a scene or encounter for the Team
Karma Pool to be used, but all the players present at the gaming
session must still vote. In ties, the gamemaster should cast the
deciding vote.

 

SHADOWRUN 191
BEHIND THE SCENES

QUICK MATRIX SYSTEMS

This section presents a quick design system that lets a
gamemaster whip up a “random” computer system in the Matrix.
A quick system will come in handy for those times when the players
dig up a clue indicating that the Crown Imperial Corp is behind
some recent problem of theirs, inspiring the team’s decker to pipe
up with, “Zero sweat. I'll just hack into their ‘puter and see what's
on file.”

Here’s how to prepare a warm welcome.

DETERMINE BASE SECURITY RATING

To create the base Security Rating, the gamemaster can choose
to simply select a number or else make a die roll to get a random
number. Then he consults the Random Security Code Table to
determine the system Security Rating. The hotter the system, the
higher its base code.

RANDOM SECURITY CODE TABLE
1D6 Roll Security Rating

1-2 Green
3-5 Orange
6 Red

 

DESIGN SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE

To create the system's architecture, the gamemaster makes a
series of die rolls to lay out each node in the system. He should
continue to roll for new nodes until the system seems right. As each
node is generated, draw it on the map.

The first node is always the SAN from which the decker will
enter. Draw a second box, an SPU (SANs always connect to SPUs),
then draw a line from the SAN to the SPU.

The SPU is now the current node. Roll 1D6 and check the SPU
column of the Node Generation Table, below, to determine the next
node. Run a line from the SPU to the new node. The new node
usually becomes the current node for the next die roll. Ignore the
result of the roll if it seems wrong. Simply decide how many nodes
connect to this one, or roll 1 D6. If there should be additional nodes,
roll 1D6 (or simply choose) and then draw them in.

As the gamemaster draws in each new node, he should assign
ita number for ease of reference during the adventure. In the sample
system so far, there is Node 1 (the SAN) and Node 2 (the SPU).

About the only firm rule for designing computer architecture
is that a system can have only one CPU. If a CPU is rolled early in the
process, its location may be too easy to reach and so the roll should
be ignored. If the system continues beyond the CPU, then a CPU
result rolled in another node can either be ignored, or can mean that
a line connects that node back to the CPU.

Having completed the basic system architecture, the
gamemaster may continue to embellish it by adding more nodes,
running additional connecting datalines, and making it a real maze.
It is a good idea to make a duplicate map while doing this. Some
decker might get to the CPU and demand to see what the system
looks like.

 

 

 

NODE GENERATION TABLE
Current Node
1D6 Roll CPu SPU
SPU CPU
SPU SPU
SPU Datastore

Datastore

Datastore Datastore SPU
Datastore : SPU
= 2 Datastore

*Add aline to a dead-end node: an SN, I/OP, or SAN. Stay
in the current node for the next roll.

Starting from a SAN, connect to an SPU.
Roll = 5. A5inan SPU is a dead end. Add an I/OP and stay
in SPU.
Roll = 1. A 1 in an SPU is the CPU. Too early. Ignore this
roll.
Roll = 3. A 3 in an SPU is another SPU. Move to this SPU.
Roll = 3. A 3 in an SPU Is a datastore. Move to the
datastore.
Roll = 5. A 5 ina datastore is an SPU. Move to the SPU.
Roll = 6. A 6 inan SPU is a dead end: add an I/OP and stay
in the SPU for the next roll.
Roll = 1. Finally! A 1 inan SPU is a CPU. Move to the CPU.
Roll = 6. Another datastore. Decide to stop here.



SET SECURITY CLASSIFICATIONS

For random systems, the gamemaster may want to assign the
same Security Code (that’s the color) to the whole system, but
randomly roll a System Rating (the number) for each node. The
classification can also be varied randomly by assigning different
Security Codes to different parts of the system.

To vary the Security Code, roll 1D6. A result of 1 is one level
lower than the overall Security Code picked earlier. On a green
system, that would mean a blue-level node. A 6 is one level higher:
on a green system, this would be an orange-level node.

Assign or roll 1D6 for the System Rating of each node. Note the
numbers on the system map.

 

192 SHADOWRUN
BEHIND THE

INSTALL IC

For each node, roll 1D6 to see if IC is present.

For a green node, IC is present on a roll of 1.

For an orange node, IC is present on a roll of 1 or 2.

For a red node, IC is present on a roll of 1, 2, or 3.

For the type of IC, roll 2D6 and consult the IC Installation Table.
IfICis present, roll 2D6 and consult the IC Program Table for the type
of IC present. Of course, if the IC is black, there is no need to consult
the next table—ethal is lethal, right?

All IC has a rating of 2D6 — 1.

IC INSTALLATION TABLE

Security Code White IC —- Gray IC Black IC

Green 2-8 9-11 12
Orange 2-7 8-10 11-12
Red 2-6 7-10 11-12

ICE PROGRAM TABLE
WHITE IC
2D6 Roll IC Type
2 Trapped IC*
3-7 Access
8-11 Barrier/Scramble**
12 Trapped IC*

* Trapped IC: Gray IC is hidden in the white IC. Roll
1D6 + 40n the White IC part of the table to see what the
obvious IC is. Then roll on the Gray IC part of the table for
the hidden IC.

** Use scramble IC only in a datastore. Use barrier IC
in any node (including a datastore.)

GRAY IC

2D6 Roll IC Type
2-4 Blaster
5-6 Trace
7-8 Killer

Tar Baby
12 Tar Pit

 

INSTALL DATA VALUES

Data is loot. Roll 2D6 and consult the Data Value Table for the
contents of each datastore. Unless the roll comes up a 2 ora 12, the
datastore will contain 1 D6 valuable files. The size of each file is 2D6
x 10 Mp. The decker needs the evaluate program to find the
valuable files.

Besides randomly stocking loot, the gamemaster should place
any files containing specific information the decker is seeking in the
datastores. He can scatter it around. Let’s say the team was attacked
by a gang called the Gutter Larks. They suspect that Crown Imperial
hired the gang to do them dirty. In one datastore the gamemaster
might place a file that contains a payment from Corporate Account
#324A7 to the Gutter Larks. Another file in another datastore might
indicate that Ivan Dragomilov is the officer authorized to release

 

 

 

funds from account #324A7. A third file (perhaps back in the first
datastore) identifies Dragomilov as a junior executive in corporate
security, and gives his address, photo, and so on. This information
lets the team find Mr. Dragomilov and ask a few pointed questions
in person.

To determine the value of the files, roll 2D6 and consult the
Data Value Table below. In an orange datastore, for example, a
character rolls 2D6 and scores 9. That means the base value is
10,000¥ per 10 Mp of data. To determine how many valuable files
are present, the character rolls 1D6, scoring 3. There are three
valuable files. For each file, he rolls 2D6 again, scoring 7, 9, and 4.
The files are 70 Mp (worth 70,000¥), 90 Mp (worth 90,000¥), and
40 Mp (worth 40,000¥). If the decker can download them all, the
“list price” of the swag will be about 200,000¥ from this datastore.
But the stuff has to be fenced, which means only 60 to 100 thou
take-home pay.

DATA VALUE TABLE
Value per 10 Mp of data
2D6 Roll Green Orange
0 0

500¥ 1,000¥
1,000¥ 2,500¥
5,000¥ 10,000¥
10,000¥ 50,000¥
0 0

 

 

SHADOWRUN 193
 

GAME LETHALITY

Face it, not everyone likes the same thing ina game. One of the
biggest points of contention is how lethal a combat system should
be, especially for a dark, gritty game like Shadowrun. Some players
and gamemasters want a “realistic” system, where any punk with
a gun is a threat. Others prefer a combat style like those found in
pulp-fiction or action films, where the major criteria of success is the
number of rounds fired. Others like it somewhere in the middle.

To that end (and to keep everybody happy) the design of the
Shadowrun system allows the gamemaster to adjust combat
lethality. As written, the game is pretty deadly. A punk with a gun
and decent skill is definitely a threat. Gamemasters and players who
like that style should use the rules as written. For a less-lethal game,
increaseall armor’s Ballistic Armor Rating by 50 percent (round up).
For an even less lethal system, double the Ballistic Armor Ratings.
In all instances, the rating of impact armor should remain the same.
The gamemaster can also make other adjustments.

Melee combat, as written, is fairly survivable. To make it more
lethal, increase the Power Ratings of the attacks by 50 percent. For
really deadly combat, double the calculated Power. (We do not
advise this. Who wants to deal with a troll that can hit with a Power
of 24+?)

If magic seems too powerful, double the base Drain target
number from one-half Force to Force. This adjustment does not make

 

194 SHADOWRUN

 

magic any less deadly, but it will give magicians second thoughts
about the power of the spells they want to cast. If the magic in the
game is really too powerful, then use Force as the base Drain target
number, and halve the Spell Resistance target numbers.

Matrix combat can be balanced by adjusting Security Ratings
and IC Ratings.

Remember, though, that none of these options is more right than
any other—it’s all a question of taste. As always, players and
gamemasters should agree on any modifications to the rules before
beginning play.

LETHALITY ADJUSTMENTS TABLE
High Medium
Threat Threat
Firearms
Ballistic Armor As is
Melee Combat
Attack Power
Magic
Drain Target Number As is Force Force
Spell Resistance
Target Number Force Force 1/2 Force

1.5x Rating 2 x Rating

2x Power 1.5x Power Asis

W ikthedisdin
  

SHADOWRUNNING

The 2050s are an exciting, dangerous time with plenty of
opportunity for adventure. And that is where the player characters
come in. Whether making a run on some megacorp’s mainframe or
providing security for a visiting dignitary or busting a friend out of
adetention center, they are the heroes. The adventures a gamemaster
creates should challenge the players’ wits even more than their
guns, and he should reward good roleplaying as much or more than
lucky dice-rolling.

When getting a group of players together, the gamemaster
ought to learn something of their interests or else his adventures are
likely to flop. One of the most important matters to consider in
planning the mission is to invent one the players would really like
to tackle. But don’t expect a lot at first. They probably know less
about the ways of the game universe than the gamemaster, and
may have only vague ideas about what they want to do. They might
want to make money, take on a corrupt corp, deal with elves, and
so on. Once they get a few runs under their belts and their
characters’ life stories take some shape, the players’ goals and ideas
will gradually become more defined. They may want to hunt down
a particular enemy, or find a lost love, or take revenge on a
corporation that did them dirty, or find a specific teacher or piece
of custom gear. The gamemaster can and should build these ideas
and suggestions into major themes in his adventures.

Encourage the players to write out their characters’ histories,
including background on family, friends, and previous employ-
ment. The gamemaster can then draw on those histories to develop
adventures that get everyone involved.

Be Aware!

The gamemaster has to keep a lot in mind. Listen to what the
players say. Keep track of the NPCs: their whereabouts, plans, and
so on. Keep a note pad handy for jotting down memos as the
adventure rolls along.

Be Knowledgeable!

A gamemaster needs to be familiar with the whole game. That
does not mean memorizing the whole rulebook, but he or she
should be familiar enough with it to be able to find a particular rule
or rules quickly when needed. The gamemaster should also have a
good knowledge of the basic game systems.

Keep a written outline for the adventure handy for quick
reference when necessary. Experienced gamemasters usually im-
provise more, but those just starting out will usually find it best to
think through the adventures in advance and to keep them rela-
tively simple.

Be Fair!

Stick to the rules. If the gamemaster or players hate something
written here, change it. Make sure everyone knows what the new
rule is.

Remember that the gamemaster knows much more about
what is happening than the NPCs do. The gamemaster may know
the player characters’ skills, weapons, spells, and so on, but the
NPCs do not. It would be unfair to let the NPCs behave and make
plans based on that knowledge.



Be Realistic!

Remember also that the NPCs played by the gamemaster are
people, with fears, needs, hopes, and desires. By giving them life,
the stories that come out of the game will be more memorable for
everybody involved.

Play critters like real critters, too. For example, most animals
have little or no interest in killing for pleasure. They fight out of
necessity—to eat, to protect their young, to save their own hides.

Be Flexible!

If a player wants to do something not explicitly covered in the
rules, don’t just refuse on principle. There is always a skill rating of
some kind that can be used for a test. Tell the player what skill or
Attribute applies to the situation and whether the chances are
good, indifferent, or terrible. Don’t reveal the precise target num-
bers, just hint at whether or not the intended action or move is
possible.

If a new rule is created to cover a special situation during a
game, decide later what to do with it. It might become a new
“house rule” that will always apply in future, or a one-shot solution
that may or may not be used again. The middle of a shadowrun is
no place to discuss the fine points of game mechanics.

Be Tough!

Challenge the players. If they don't sweat to get that Karma,
they haven’t earned it. Two goons armed with baseball bats would
not be the only security guarding the corporate data center, and the
local yakuza won't keep their main database on a home computer.

Once everyone is comfortable with the way the rules work, it'll
be easier to fine-tune the “threat level” of an adventure. For now,
keep in mind that on a really rough run, the player characters
should, ideally, win it only by the skin of their teeth, if they win at
all. But if the gamemaster doesn’t get it right at first, nobody's
gonna fry him (we hope).

Be Kind!

How can a gamemaster be tough and kind? A gamemaster can
kill off a character anytime. He can throw enormous risks at the
player characters until their luck runs out and they fail a test. But only
cheap bullies do that. Gamemasters who measure their success in
trashed character sheets soon find themselves without players.
Better to be too easy on the characters than too deadly.

When the player characters get in over their heads, remember
that bad guys like to take prisoners. Prisoners can be made to talk.
Prisoners can be used as hostages. Prisoners can also pay ransoms.
Most important, prisoners have a chance to escape and live to fight
another day. If fictional villains were smart enough to kill off the
heroes at the first opportunity, then all the adventure movies ever
made would end after the first 10 minutes.

DEATH AND SHADOWRUNNING

In any roleplaying game, death is a touchy subject. Nobody likes
it when a favorite character buys the farm. In Shadowrun, agricultural
property can come very cheap. Characters can get splattered before
they know what is happening. Despite all the special rules and hi-tech
medicine, player characters are going to die.

 

SHADOWRUN 195
 

Sometimes, the gamemaster may have to cheat to keep
characters alive. If, in the gamemaster’s opinion, the player did
everything right and just had bad luck in rolling dice, the character
does not have to die. Knock the character out! Stick him in the
hospital! Whatever! Don’t let a well-developed character die just
because the player rolled a 2 when the character needed a 3. The
gamemaster can and should decide that he stays alive long enough
to get to a hospital.

The same goes for the best NPCs. If the villain the gamemaster
spent hours designing gets hit by a lucky shot and does not resist the
damage, the body can always be buried under a collapsing building
or suffer some other disaster that “no one could possibly survive.” A
few months later, the villain can show up, held together by glue and
cyberware, ready for revenge against the player characters.

CREATING AN ADVENTURE

There are lots of adventures to play and lots of ways to play
them. Each of dozens of roleplaying games published has taken a
swing at describing how to write a good adventure. There have
been hundreds of articles on the subject, too. Experience is the best
teacher, but some suggestions and tips for taking care of certain
details may help.

The main elements of an adventure usually include objectives,
motivations, and opposition.

 

Objectives

In order to “win” the adventure, characters usually have to
survive, for starters. Beyond that, the team has to carry out some
specific task: find the lost gizmo, rescue the kidnap victim, pay off
a debt, kill or capture the villain, or foil his plan. At first, the real
objective(s) may not be obvious. The adventuring team may have
believed they were doing arun on acorporate mainframe to get the
nuyen to pay off their bookie—until they find a file with the plan to
clear outa tribal holding so the corp can build a plant. Ifit so happens
that one of the characters belongs to that tribe, the team gets anew
objective: foil the plan.

When writing an adventure, keep track of the objectives and
give characters a chance to fulfill them. Let them find clues or be
given assignments that reveal objectives. Objectives are worth
Karma, so this is important.

Motivation

Suppose the gamemaster has an adventure all worked out and
sends Mr. Johnson to the team with a job offer that will catapult
them into the adventure. After listening to the pitch, the team says,
“No thanks, Mr. J. We'll take a big pass on this one.”

This may be the time to talk to the players about why they don't
want to tackle the adventure. Too dangerous? Too little reward? If
the problem is money, push the fees up a little. Some characters
might want payment in kind rather than credit: magicians want
teachers or supplies, deckers want time on a mainframe to design
programs; samurai like access to new hardware, and so on. Every-

 

196 SHADOWRUN
BEHIND THE SCENES

body likes information, so maybe Mr. Johnson can come up with the
passcodes to a certain mainframe, hmmm?

If the whole premise of the adventure bores the players silly,
it may be better to simply scrap this session in favor of a bull session
on the kinds of things the players want their characters to do.

The more information players give the gamemaster about their
characters’ lives, beliefs, and psychology, the more material the
gamemaster has to build motivation into the adventures. As the
players get into the game, characters will acquire friends, enemies,
obligations, and quirks. These also can be used to motivate adven-
turers.

Opposition
Most adventures involve some opposition. The team must face

and defeat an enemy in order to achieve their objectives. Enemies can
be anonymous forces, or they can be very personal. The world of
Shadowrun provides a wide array of possible enemies.

Shadowrunners often tackle big organizations. When possible,
they do so obliquely, rather than risk getting smeared by standing
in the open and challenging the opposition to come out and fight.
Big organizations are usually bureaucratic nightmares, riddled with
politics and slow to react. Shadowrunners can dance around the
giant, stinging it instead of going head-to-head. Often, corporate
opposition is actually an individual who runs a piece of the
organization, rather than the whole show. If the team defeats that
individual, the larger organization will usually throw the guy to the
wolves. Organizations rarely try to exact revenge, because revenge
shows no gain on a balance sheet.

Opposition can also come from individuals or from small groups
more on alevel with the team itself. This can get personal very quickly.
A good enemy is a valuable resource in writing future adventures.
Depending on how seriously the shadowrunners work him over, such
a foe may want to waste the team for no other reason than revenge.
Adventures become a series of duels between the player characters
and their relentless foe, building up to a final showdown.

The following descriptions of some typical organized foes may
be useful.

Corporations: The enormous megacorps of 2053 offer plenty
of niches for ruthless individuals willing to use any means necessary
to advance their plans, whether it be winning a corporate objective
or feathering their own nests. Corps are at least nominally sensitive
to public opinion and government oversight; after all, boycotts,
lawsuits, and investigations are bad for business. If the characters
run up against a corporate executive and trash his illegal plan, the
parent company will, more than likely, piously disclaim any knowl-
edge of the criminal’s actions.

Organized Crime: Crime is a growth industry in the 2050s. The
team, especially if its members are SINless, are themselves mem-
bers of the underworld. The underworld is also a rich source of
enemies. The Big Boys are still around, typified by the yakuza,
Japan’s equivalent of the Mafia.

Tackling any criminal organization can be deadly because such
groups can move quickly and decisively. There are power struggles
in the underworld that characters can exploit, and the samurai-like
code of the underworld can also work to the shadowrunners’
advantage. If they play “by the rules” and their opponent does not,
their foe’s own fellow-criminals may turn on them.

Government: In the chaotic politics of the Sixth World, govern-
ment can be an enemy or an ally. Governments are big and
powerful, but clumsy when trying to swat a mosquito-sized enemy.
A typical government enemy is an intelligence organization or a
bureaucratic office. If the opposition is operating covertly or ille-
gally, then it can be defeated by exposure, because the government
will disclaim all knowledge of these activities and leave the head of
the agency to twist slowly in the wind.

Police: The cops can be with you or against you. The typical law
enforcement contractors in Shadowrun are stretched thin trying to
keep the people they protect from going under in a wave of crime.
Widespread corruption often leaves the clean cops powerless. The
typical police opposition should be a crooked officer, possibly a
precinct commander, whose schemes cross the team’s trail. Of
course, if the characters are simply a bunch of thugs, preying on the
innocent, then every cop in the city will be out for their blood, and
rightly so.

Policlubs: Policlubs, or front groups for policlubs, or the
hidden masters of policlubs, make good opposition. Stinkers like
the Humanis are prime villains. Policlubs are usually riddled with
internal politics and extremely sensitive to bad publicity. Unlike the
other groups, they don’t have crack mercenaries on call, but their
people are often fanatics. Typical policlub opposition will be a local
chapter or splinter group with an agenda that includes blackmail,
assassination, terrorism, and the like.

Adding Color

An adventure needs to engage the imagination, which is really
what roleplaying is all about. Players need to see the scenery, hear
the gunshots, feel the sweat trickling down their necks. Some
players will do most of the work. Others will make the gamemaster
want to tear his hair out because they refuse to play along. Most will
fall in the middle.

As a wise old gamemaster once said, “Don’t tell me what is
happening, show me!” Good advice. Avoid reciting descriptions in
a dull monotone. Overact! Ham it up.

If possible, use some kind of display with miniatures to show
players the territory. It’s much easier to draw a wall with a door in
it than to try and explain the layout verbally. This kind of display also
avoids all manner of arguments as to who is standing in the line of
fire, where the grenade goes when someone tosses it, and so on.

When the team taps into a datafile containing a fiendish corpo-
rate plan, don’t just read it to them. Write one up before the adventure
and hand it to them. Every such prop speeds up play and adds color.

Make the NPCs as colorful as possible. A lot of gamemasters
act in character when playing NPCs, complete with funny voices.
Being a ham helps. Steal wholeheartedly from comic books,
movies, TV, and fiction. If the gamemaster wants to play a fixer like
Groucho Marx, go ahead. If, on the other hand, this kind of play-
acting doesn’t suit the group, don’t bother with it.

Color should not come only from the gamemaster. Players
should try to stay in character too. Besides providing players with
enemies, loot, and Karma, adventures include subplots to advance
the shadowrunners’ life stories when they are not in a firefight or
decking into the Matrix. Do they have a love life? If not, do they
want one? Who are their friends? How do they spend their time?
Try and have at least part of each adventure develop these details.

 

SHADOWRUN 197
BEHIND THE SCENES

Prep Time

This is time the characters will need to get ready for the run (the
gamemaster should take some, too). The players will always want
to do a lot of preparation before taking on anything they think is
tough. They will need to scope the place out, check on the principal
opposition’s background, look for subordinates to suborn, and
such. They can spend a whole session getting ready. Don’t let them.

To keep it moving, have some of that info available for them.
Pass it on through a contact or their fixer. If they want to double-
check or do their own snooping, compress the time. If the decker
wants to hunt around, have the player make a single dice roll and
use the number of successes to decide how much info he or she
finds. If one of the team wants to get friendly with somebody in the
target organization, or monitor activities to learn schedules and/or
procedures, let the player make one die roll for an appropriate skill
or Attribute. Weigh the number of successes rolled and how little
time is left before you give them the information that they want to
know. Give it some probability of accuracy. (“You're pretty sure the
wage slave thinks you’re an okay dude.” or “They've changed the
passcodes at two o'clock for three of the last four days. The other
time it was at three o’clock and they had a fire drill that day.”) After
all, the characters are still guessing at how likely it is that what
they've seen or learned represents standard conditions. If they want
special gear, let them put the word out. The stuff may or may not
be available in the time given them. The gamemaster decides.

In short, give the team a little prep time, but don’t let them
keep the curtain from rising on time. If the clock’s ticking, let them
know. After all, how long is it going to take Aztechnology to mess
up the mage they grabbed? Can't wait too long before the runners
spring her. If they’re not moving fast enough, turn up the heat.

Techniques for Less Stressful Shadowruns

Here are some tips that gamemasters can use to keep track of
story lines, NPCs, combat, computer networks, and the zillion and
one other things that go into an adventure.

Equalizers: Sometimes the team is going to get into more
trouble than they can handle alone. If the gamemaster wants to bail
them out, he can add an equalizer to the adventure. Say the player
who runs the team’s magician is sick and does not show up. The
team is hosed without a mage, so the gamemaster can whip up an
NPC magician to work with the team.

Try letting a player run the equalizer, but be ready to take
control of the NPC’s actions if the player does not remain in
character.

Displays: A visual aid is so useful it is almost essential. Draw
it on a big pad of paper, or use the various plastic mats made for
gamers, with hexagonal or square grids. For figures, 25mm-scale
metal miniatures (we kinda like the official Shadowrun™ figures)
pack a lot of atmospheric detail and are small enough not to need
an auditorium for a firefight.

Maps: Maps are powerful tools. A map of the city where the
campaign is set, even if it’s just a sketch with shapes showing
neighborhoods, is also darn near essential. Try using two: one to
show the city that everyone knows (share this with the players) and
another that shows the locations of all those secret places (keep this
one). As the team discovers these locations, they can add them to
the “public” map.

 

Cities are going to change a lot in the next sixty years, but the
gamemaster can still take an ordinary street map and use it for
adventures. Use colored pens to indicate the neighborhoods and
other areas on a map. A card file, notebook, or database program
can be used to keep a list of useful or interesting addresses.

Maps of smaller places (buildings, sewers, neighborhoods,
and so on) are also important. Draw them, use maps of real places,
or borrow them from game adventures. Don’t be afraid to re-use
them, either—many real buildings have very similar floorplans.

Masterminds: Whenever writing an adventure, even a small
one, consider whether it might be part of some vast conspiracy. The
mastermind could be an organization or an individual. Drop occa-
sional clues for the player characters and hint at such conspiracies,
even if one does not exist in this particular case. Paranoia is not a
problem in Shadowrun. It's a way of life.

As ideas for the mastermind(s) come up, make notes. Eventu-
ally, the team should start encountering a mastermind directly.
How surprised they will be to find that he already hates their guts.
They don’t know that they’ve been lousing up his plans for months!

NPC Files: A file of major NPCs is a great help. Use a card file,
a notebook, or a computer database to store profiles on contacts,
family members, lovers, major specialists (magicians, doctors,
lawyers), major NPCs in your game, the local police commander;
any NPC likely to be used in adventures again and again. Easy access
is important to keep the game moving.

Prepare some stock NPC profiles (wagemages, goons, gang
members, and so on) for quick reference. If the profiles FASA
publishes keep showing up again and again, players are eventually
going to be pretty familiar with the bad guys’ stats.

Secrecy

There are a lot of situations in Shadowrun that would benefit
from a bit of secrecy. Sometimes simply announcing a target
number tells the players some important piece of information that
they shouldn't know. One alternative is to have the player roll the
dice and announce the results. Then the gamemaster figures out the
successes and relates what happens.

Sometimes, just asking for a die roll can give away information.
If the only time the gamemaster asks for a Perception Test is when
the characters are about to enter a trap or ambush, they won't stay
guessing for long. It doesn’t hurt to occasionally ask all the
characters to roll the dice for no reason at all: provide an imaginary
target number or be very mysterious and just ask for their die roll
results. Try nodding sagely at the results, or saying “Hunh, I thought
so.” Remember what we said about paranoia.

Be careful not to give away the importance of a person or thing
by describing it in overly detailed terms. A wealth of detail will
indicate that the gamemaster has probably spent a lot of time
designing him, her, or it. For example, when the team is meeting
three NPCs (one of whom is the villain, while the other two are just
his goons) refrain from saying, “You meet three suits from the
corporation. The guy on the left is wearing a fancy outfit and smells
of a distinctive cologne, with an opal ring on his left pinkie and
obvious cyberware mods that make him a deadly fighter. The other
two? Oh, uh, they’re just goons.” Either describe all three in detail
(keep the players guessing as to which one is the main NPC to
watch) or just introduce all three as “typical suits, ya know?”

 

198 SHADOWRUN
BEHIND THE SCENES

AWARDING KARMA

Characters get Karma for surviving an adventure and more
Karma if they do well in the process. The gamemaster makes the
awards. Give all surviving team members Karma in equal amounts,
based on the following criteria.

Team Karma

A typical adventure should be worth maybe 3 to 4 team Karma
Points. One for survival, a couple of objectives, and a point for the
danger along the way. A real horror show would be worth 6 to 8
points or so, but that requires combat, danger, and powerful
opposition, where the objective is wrapped in twisting paths of
mystery!

Survival: If the characters live, they get a point of Karma. Ain’t
life grand?

Success: For every objective in the adventure that the team
achieved, give each member a point of Karma. Partial awards are
allowed. If they foiled the evil plan and stole the technological
gizmo but the villain escaped, they get 2 out of a possible 3.

Threat: Award extra Karma for dangerous adventures. A
simple mission might not carry any bonus, but a mission against
high odds or one where a dangerous enemy is involved is worth 1
or 2 extra points. A whirling nightmare of combat, confusion, and
betrayal is worth 3 Karma Points each to the survivors. Let the level
of opposition influence this. Even a simple run against a superior
enemy (a powerful corp type or a yakuza oyabun) is worth extra
Karma.

Individual Karma Awards

Team awards are made to everybody who participates in an
adventure, even if a character did not get into the spotlight this time
around. Individual Karma is awarded to characters who personally
advance the story or the overall gaming enjoyment in some way.

If a character has an absolutely amazing run, and the group
succeeds at avery nasty mission, he might get up to 10 or 12 Karma
Points. A Karma award greater than 12 points for a single adventure
should probably never happen.

Roleplaying: Award 1 Karma Point to players who mostly
stayed in character. Really good roleplaying is worth 2 Karma
Points. The standards of roleplaying will depend on how a
gamemaster and his or her group like to play. Be flexible! This is
supposed to be fun, not a course in method acting.

Guts: Brave and/or effective fighters should get a point or two
of Karma. Stupidly brave fighters don’t earn this award. If they are
lucky enough to survive, that is its own reward. This would include
gutsy magical battles in astral space and desperate combat in the
Matrix as well as shoot-em-ups in the physical world.

Smarts: Players who come up with a clever strategy, or solve
a puzzling clue, or pull off a good scam, should get at least 1 point
of Karma for their characters. This includes those smart enough to
know when to surrender or run.

Right Place—Right Time: Characters who are in the right place,
with the right skill to do some necessary job, should get a point of
Karma. Don’t award Karma just for making good die rolls. The award
is for having a skill that is vital and knowing when to use it.

If the players knew they needed a lock picked and so had a
character slot the Lockpicking Skill beforehand, a Karma award is

 

 

unsuitable. If the team got trapped in a dead-end alley, with the bad
guys closing in, and one of them spotted the old doorway and
picked the lock under fire so the team could escape—well, that’s
different story.

Surprise: Players can surprise you with plans that absolutely
kill the story line. A surprising and effective strategy is worth a
Karma Point to the player who comes up with it. Surprising and silly
actions, on the other hand, get zip.

Humor: If a player, acting in character, can paralyze the entire
gaming group with laughter, that is worth | Karma Point in an
adventure. We are in this for fun, after all.

Drama: Likewise, if a player, acting in character, impresses the
group with a particular piece of high drama (maybe even high
melodrama), he should get a point of Karma.

REPUTATION

For a convenient measure of a character’s reputation, keep a
running total of his Karma. Keep two scores: private rep, which is
the total Karma gained, and public rep, which may be a lesser
number.

Private rep is known only in the shadows. No matter how cool
the character may be, how slick the runs are, word will get out that
the character's the one to see for a quiet job.

Public rep is how well known the character is outside this elite
community, among the cops, petty fixers, and the media, for
example. The gamemaster decides how much of the Karma for an
adventure is public. If the character is really good, he may be able
to stay in the shadows.

To determine if a character is known or not, subtract the public
or private rep of the character from 1,000. Then divide that value by
50. That number is the target number for any Etiquette or similar
tests that a non-player character makes to see if he has heard of the
player character.

 

SHADOWRUN 199


You are who you know.
—Street proverb

his chapter includes brief descriptions, including Attribute and Skill Ratings, for
non-player characters likely to appear in Shadowrun adventures. The quotes may
help the gamemaster get a “feel” for the character to help him add life and color
to his own roleplaying. In many cases, some items of equipment have not been
listed so that gamemasters can tailor the gear to their own needs.

LEGWORK

To follow up on or discover clues in an adventure, the player characters need
to investigate people, places, and situations. One of the best ways for runners to
get the information they need is through their contacts.

A success test using Street or Corporate Etiquette, Target Number 4, typically
serves to find out what a contact does or does not know. The amount of information
available from the contact depends on the number of successes the player achieves.
Characters who achieve more than one success gain all the information available
to all previous levels of success.

The gamemaster should try to make the player character’s interaction with his
contact consist of more than a few abstract die rolls. Play out the meeting in full:
contacts are characters with their own lives, points of view, and needs, not simply
spigots of information to be turned on and off automatically.

The player character rolls a number of dice equal to his Etiquette Skill to
determine what information the contact knows and is willing to impart. Once the
number of successes is determined, the gamemaster can roleplay the encounter
with the appropriate information level in mind. Meetings should be tailored to the
“personality” of specific contacts. Some will prefer a straightforward meet in a

 

 

200 SHADOWRUN


201 SHADOWRUN
CONTACT

specific place, while others will only feel comfortable with elabo-
rate forms of information exchange.

Contacts are generally considered trustworthy, as long as the
runners play it safe. A player character should never compromise his
contact by later making it obvious where he obtained the information
or by revealing that the team may be planning to hit some group with
which the contact is affiliated. Are the contact’s ties stronger to his
group or to the runner? A good runner never tests those ties by
placing his contact in a position where he must choose.

Whether or not the runner has to pay for his contact’s services
and how long before the contact may want information or a favor
in return are questions that add another dimension to these
encounters. Dealing with a contact is a two-way street. Those
gamemasters who need a base-line value to determine fees for
information can use a formula of multiplying the contact’s Skill
Rating in his or her most appropriate Etiquette by how many
successes the player rolled in his Etiquette Test. Multiply that total
by the total of the contact’s Charisma and Intelligence. Then
multiply that final value by 10. The result is in nuyen. Gamemasters
will, of course, adjust the base result to reflect the actual contact
involved. Normal Negotiation procedures (p. 72) apply to deter-
mine the final payment for the information.

 

 

 

 

Runners may also ask their contacts to “check around,” “keep
their ear to the ground,” or some other idiom describing generally
listening for news. In such a case, the gamemaster makes an
appropriate Etiquette Test for the contact at +2 against the target
number given in the information table. (See published Shadowrun
adventures.) If the Etiquette Test results in any successes, the contact
reports the appropriate information to the runner in 2D6 hours, or at
a time determined by the gamemaster. This is an excellent way for
gamemasters to make sure that a certain piece of information makes
it to the runners. The cost of this service is determined as if the contact
had had access to the information initially.

The gamemaster can add another dimension to legwork by
acknowledging that contacts are not always available at the conve-
nience of the runners. Arrangements must be made before the
actual meeting can take place. When a player character wants to
meet with a contact, the gamemaster rolls 2D6, then multiplies the
result by 30. The resulting base time is the number of minutes it will
take to arrange the meeting with the contact. Players may elect to
trade off successes from their Etiquette Test to reduce the time it
takes to reach the contact, and so receive faster, but potentially less
helpful, information. In this case, the gamemaster can have the
player make the character's Etiquette Test at the time he announces
his intention to meet with the contact. The player should also decide
at that time how many successes he will trade off to reduce the
waiting period. The base time value should be kept secret.

Deckers may also take an active role in acquiring general
information. Many electronic information services exist in the era of
Shadowrun—public, private, and secret—and these contain many
gigapulses of data comprised of on-line conversations, rumors,
stolen and dumped files, and the like. Deckers can create simple
programs to search vast databases for key words and related terms,
then download the information to their cyberdeck or Matrix-con-
nected personal computer. To actually create the search program is
a trivial matter; gamemasters should assume all deckers have one.

Virtually any information available in this section can be found
in the Matrix, if one knows where to look and has the time. The base
time for such a search is 2D6 hours. The decker makes a success test
against his or her Etiquette (Matrix) Skill, or defaults to Intelligence
on the Skill Web. The target number is the same as given on the
information table. Hacking Pool dice may not be used to supple-
ment this Success Test roll. Etiquette Test successes can be traded
off to reduce the base time for receiving information. No effective
Appropriate Contact restrictions can be applied to obtaining this
information, though the player must indicate what kind of informa-
tion sources he is searching. If the character is searching corporate-
related databases, Corporate Contact information is appropriate. If
the character is searching a street-level chat-line database, Street
Contact information is appropriate.

A decker is limited in the number of subjects he can research
simultaneously, based on his own abilities and the available time. The
maximum number of searches that the decker can conduct at any one
time is equal to the character's Intelligence, divided by 2, rounded up.
This base value assumes the decker does nothing else but sit and
search, continually adjusting the search paths and parameters. If the
character wishes to actively perform other activities, the gamemaster
must decide how much time is taken up performing those other
activities and adjust the base value accordingly.

 

202 SHADOWRUN
ee

BARTENDER

“| been tending bar here for a lot of years now. Seen it all in my
time. Know all the regulars real good. Their problems mostly, but
their happy times, too. We're like family around here. Always
looking out for each other. We're peaceable folks, though. Don’t
like no trouble. Trouble is bad for business.”
QUOTES

“Whazappening, man? Ain't seen you for a while. The usual?”

“I caught a little something about that. Not first-hand, mind
you. | heard from a man who knows a man. Understand?”

“There was some suits in here asking after you, but | told them
you ain’t been around.”
COMMENTARY

The bartender is a common source of information on current
conditions in the streets and on the club circuit. He is discreet and
reliable, for a price. Discounts for old friends and good customers,
of course.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 4 Firearms: 3
Quickness: 3 Etiquette (Street): 4
Strength: 4 Unarmed Combat: 3
Charisma: 3 Special Skills
Intelligence: 2 Rumormill: 5
Willpower: 2 Sympathetic Listening: 5
Essence: 6
Reaction: 2

Professional Rating: 1

 

 

 

BOUNTY HUNTER

“Nobody asked you to like me. You want the guy or not? I can
bring him back alive, but that’s extra. If all you want is a body, no
problem. Of course, I'll guarantee identification. It's all part of the
service.”

QUOTES

“Dead. Alive. Don’t really matter to me. Of course, dead is a
lot easier.”
COMMENTARY

The bounty hunter is a hard woman. She lives by tracking those
people that the corporate cops and hitmen don’t have the time or
inclination to track down. She’s very good at what she does.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 6 Bike: 5
Quickness: 5 Car: 5
Strength: 5 (6) Computer: 4
Charisma: 1 Etiquette (Corporate): 3
Intelligence: 4 Etiquette (Street): 5
Willpower: 4 Firearms: 8
Essence: 2.35 Stealth: 4
Reaction: 4 (8) Unarmed Combat: 6
Special Skills:
Data Tracing: 3
Tracking: 3
CYBERWARE

Cyberarm (Strength 1)
Cybereyes with Thermographic Imaging
Smartlink
Wired Reflexes (2)
Professional Rating: 3-4

 

SHADOWRUN 203


CITY OFFICIAL

“We have a fine city here, one of the best-run metroplexes on
the continent. All those rumors you may have heard about corrup-
tion in the current administration are just smoke from the opposi-
tion parties. Smoke and lies from malcontents. We are all hard
workers, proud of our city and proud to serve the public as best we
can.”

QUOTES

“No comment.”

“I'm sorry, but I really can’t comment on that at this time.”

“| assure you that there is no conflict of interest in the present
circumstances.”

COMMENTARY

The city official is a typical member of the bureaucracy that runs
the metroplex. Though concerned about his public image and the
reactions of the voters, he is more concerned about his party bosses
and his sponsors. He is most trustworthy during a campaign, but
will gladly sell you out for a political or career advantage.
ATTRIBUTES SKILLS

Body: 2 Etiquette (Corporate): 4

Quickness: 2 Etiquette (Tribal): 3

Strength: 2 Negotiate: 4

Charisma: 5

Intelligence: 3

Willpower: 2

Essence: 6

Reaction: 2
Professional Rating: 1



 

COMPANY MAN

“I’m a company man. | know that doesn’t make me very
welcome in some places, but that doesn't bother me. I’m not here
to make people happy. I'm here to do a job and I'll do whatever it
takes to get it done. The company'll take care of the mess after-
wards. It always does.”

QUOTES

“Nothing personal, friend. It’s just business.”

“I'm just in it for the money and the benefit package, sweet-
heart.”

“You're being an annoyance to somebody important, chummer.
I've been asked to resolve the matter.”

COMMENTARY

The company man is the special executive agent for the
corporation. He does his job, no questions asked. He is loyal, often
unto death. After all, the corporation can even fix that.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 6 Etiquette (Corporate): 3
Quickness: 5 Firearms: 7
Strength: 6 Stealth: 5
Charisma: 2 Unarmed Combat: 6

Intelligence: 4

Willpower: 5

Essence: 3

Reaction: 4 (6)
CYBERWARE

Wired Reflexes (1)

Skillwires (5)
Professional Rating: 3

Vehicle (Gamemaster's discretion for type): 5

 

 

 

204 SHADOWRUN


CORPORATE SECURITY GUARD

“Sure, | been through hard times, but I’ve got a good job with
the corporation now. I’m a company man all the way. It’s got just
enough glamour and excitement to keep me happy right now.
Someday, though, maybe I'll work my way up, and get myselfa slot
in the special ops division. Be one of those guys who push all the
buttons. Yeah, that would be nice.”
QUOTES

“Hold it right there, chummer. Let’s see your corp card.”

“Are you authorized for this section? Let's see your corp card.”

“Your card checks O.K. How about them Sonics? Quite a game
the other night.”
COMMENTARY

The corporate security guard is a simple man whois really more
interested in his own private life and survival than dangerous action
and adventure. He greatly values his position with the corporation
and will work in its best interests, especially when there is a
corporate official nearby watching him.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 4 Etiquette (Corporate): 2
Quickness: 3 Firearms: 3
Strength: 3 Interrogation: 2
Charisma: 2 Unarmed Combat: 3
Intelligence: 2
Willpower: 2
Essence: 6
Reaction: 2

Professional Rating: 2

CORPORATE SECRETARY

“I know what a lot of people think about us here at the

company. Believe me, I've heard it all. | also know this is a strange
thing for me to say, but...I’m a company woman. All | can say is that
the corporation's been very good to me and | intend to do anything
I can to keep things that way.”

QUOTES

“I'm sorry, but Mr. Johnson is not available at the moment. May

| take a message?”

“Could you hold, please?”

“I'm sorry, but Mr. Johnson is still unavailable.”

“He'll get back to you as soon as he can.”
COMMENTARY

The corporate secretary is cool, efficient, loyal, and discreet.
You’d want her working for you, if you could have her. She’s as
much a part of the corporate office as the furniture and telecom.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 2 Computer: 3
Quickness: 2 Etiquette (Corporate): 4
Strength: 2 Special Skill:
Charisma: 4 Corporate Rumormil! 4
Intelligence: 4
Willpower: 2
Essence: 4.8
Reaction: 3

CYBERWARE
Datajack, 100 Mp of Memory

Professional Rating: 1
 

SHADOWRUN 205
Lc

DWARF TECHNICIAN

“| know it’s a stereotype, but what do you want? Stereotypes
make sense sometimes, you know. I happen to like tech, that’s all.
It's not like it’s in my blood. It’s just a knack, an interest. And | am
very good at it.”

QUOTES

“Nobody appreciates good craftsmanship anymore.”

“What do think you're paying for? Some fumble-fingered ork
who doesn’t know a circuit board from a bread board?”

“Now ain't that sweet! Them furriners sure like to make their
circuits small.”

COMMENTARY

The dwarf technician may actually be no better than any other,
but he does tend to blow his own horn whenever he gets the
chance. Maybe he just tries harder, though he would never admit
that.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 4 Computer Theory: 6
Quickness: 2 Computers (B/R): 6
Strength: 3 Electronics (B/R): 9
Charisma: 2 Electronics: 6
Intelligence: 6 Etiquette (Street or Corporate): 3
Willpower: 4
Essence: 3.8
Reaction: 4
CYBERWARE

Datajack, 200 Mp of Memory
Professional Rating: 1-2

 



ELVEN HITMAN

“You came looking for the best and now you've found me. |
heard of your proposal. Such a sanction is well within my capacity.
| can do the work with no noise, no fuss, no trace. Satisfaction
guaranteed.”
QUOTES

“I do hope you have arranged for quality logistic support. My
last employer had a skinflint’s tendency to skimp.”

“What did you say your credit balance was?”

“lam not mad. You do not want to see me when | am mad.”
COMMENTARY

The elven hitman is slick and smooth, and he knows it. He is
the quintessential gentleman-assassin. He is always impeccably
dressed, with accessories of the finest quality. His manners are
smooth, with just a hint of dangerous arrogance. Unless, of course,
he loses his temper.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 5 Bike: 4
Quickness: 6 Car: 4
Strength: 5 Demolition: 4
Charisma: 2 Etiquette (Corporate): 3
Intelligence: 4 Etiquette (Street): 3
Willpower: 4 Firearms: 8
Essence: 2.5 Hovercraft: 4
Reaction: 5 (9) Unarmed Combat: 4
CYBERWARE
Wired Reflexes (2)
Smartlink

Professional Rating: 3-4

 

206 SHADOWRUN


FIXER

“You say you re looking for a little military hardware? Could be
| have just what you need. Money is an amazing thing. Fixes just
about anything. Need an expert to run that hardware? | can take
care of that, too. You came to the right woman, my friend. | know
we can do business.”
QUOTES

“Let's see the cred balance, chummer.”

“It's hot. Some kind of military program, | think. It’s definitely
not Israeli, despite the casing.”

“A woman's got business expenses to cover.”

“Are you sure nobody's tailing you?”
COMMENTARY

The fixer is a fence and/or arranger, a power broker of the
streets who always has the latest in software, equipment, or
information. All for a price.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 2 Computer: 3
Quickness: 3 Electronics: 3
Strength: 2 Etiquette (Street): 5
Charisma: 3 Firearms: 3
Intelligence: 5 Negotiation: 7
Willpower: 5 Special Skill
Essence: 1.8 Evaluate Value of Hi-Tech Items: 6
Reaction: 4 Equipment Acquisition: 4
CYBERWARE
Cybereyes

Datajack, 300 Mp of Memory
Professional Rating: 2-3

 

 

GANG BOSS

“To live on the streets is to know the streets. Who's on top,
who's out, where the turf lines are. You're on my turf now,
chummer. Let's here you sing. If | like the tune, maybe I'll let you
keep your tongue. But you'd better not bring any trouble my way.
I don't like strangers slopping their wars over onto my turf.”
QUOTES

“I'm the boss here.”

“You want to see action in this part of the plex, you talk to me.”
COMMENTARY

The gang boss talks tough, and he is tough. He has to be in
order to stay on top. But he’s not stupid. He’s learned a lot of hard
lessons growing up on the streets. Just being tough doesn't cut it

anymore.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 3 Armed Combat: 4
Quickness: 3 Etiquette (Street): 6
Strength: 4 Firearms: 4
Charisma: 4 Leadership: 4
Intelligence: 4 Unarmed Combat: 2
Willpower: 4
Essence: 6
Reaction: 3

Professional Rating: 2-3

 

SHADOWRUN 207
HUMANIS POLICLUB MEMBER

“They're worse than the heathen, these so-called metahumans.
They and all who side with them must be annihilated if the true way
of the world is ever to be followed. Tell me, have you fallen under
their spells, brother?”

QUOTES

“Black, white, or yellow is no longer the question at hand. Now
it is simply a matter of us and them. Humans and metahumans.”

“I would take my sister’s life before | would let her poison our
bloodline in marriage to one of them.”

COMMENTARY

The Humanis Policlub member belongs to an organization that
opposes all legal rights for the Awakened, especially metahumans.
They have been known to twist and bend existing laws whenever
possible in order to further their own aims, while at the same time
suppressing the rights of the opposition.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 4 Bike: 3
Quickness: 4 Car: 3
Strength: 4 Demolition: 4
Charisma: 2 Etiquette (Street): 3
Intelligence: 2 Firearms: 4
Willpower: 4
Essence: 6
Reaction: 3

Professional Rating: 1-3
NOTES: The individual member will have 1D6 other members he can call to
help him. The Humanis members tend to be pack-animals.

208 SHADOWRUN

 

MECHANIC

“Machines are a lot nicer than people. They never sass you
back, never get up on the wrong side of the bed. A woman can
understand them. They never complain about grease on your
clothes or dirt under your fingernails. Machines and me, we get
along pretty well.
QUOTES

“You broke it good this time.”

“How do ya expect me to fix that on yer budget?”

“If ya don’t want the weapons registered, it'll cost ya extra.
Plenty extra.”
COMMENTARY

The mechanic is the person to see when your transport’s down.
She also does custom work.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 2 Aircraft (B/R): 6
Quickness: 3 Computer Theory: 6
Strength: 3 Computer: 3
Charisma: 2 Electronics (B/R): 5
Intelligence: 6 Electronics: 3
Willpower: 4 Ground Vehicles (B/R): 8
Essence: 6
Reaction: 4

Professional Rating: 1-2
 

MEDIA PRODUCER

“The people want to know. That’s what I always say. They have
enquiring minds, and besides, it’s their fundamental right to be
informed. At least that’s what we'll tell them.”

QUOTES
“For us, bad news is always good for the ratings.”
“If | can’t find any news, I'll just have to make some.”

“Look, | been in the business since before you were born. |
know what'll play and what won't.”

“All the people want is a good show. Just a show. Every day
is so full of problems, complaints, and worries that when people
come home at night, all they want is their cocktail, their solitude,
their entertainment. That's where | come in.”

COMMENTARY

The media producer is an entertainment entrepreneur, who
draws a very fine line between news information and entertain-
ment. She’s got an eye for what will make people sit up and take
notice, and how to present the stories in a way that won't leave
anybody too upset. Broadcasting is a business, after all.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 2 Computer: 3
Quickness: 3 Etiquette (Corporate): 4
Strength: 2 Etiquette (Media ): 4
Charisma: 5 Etiquette (Street): 4
Intelligence: 4 Negotiation: 4
Willpower: 4 Stealth: 2
Essence: 6 Unarmed Combat: 2
Reaction: 3

Professional Rating: 2

 

 

METAHUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVIST

“We're all human, you know. It’s as simple as that. The
disgraceful actions of Lone Star’s storm troopers at the O.R.C. rally
last week will not be forgotten. They never should have gassed the
crowd. There was no real provocation. It was a peaceful demonstra-
tion. Disgraceful. I just came from filing a grievance with the city
court. We’ll see what the governor has to say when her Gestapo is
slapped with a lawsuit.”
QUOTES

“Elves (and dwarfs and trolls, sometimes even orks) are
people, too.”

“How would you like to be treated like that?”

“You think the March on Fresno was tough. Nothing. | was
down in SF on Goblinization Day.”
COMMENTARY

The metahuman rights activist may have another job, but her
true calling is working to see that all branches of humanity receive
equal justice before the law. Then again, any unjust law deserves to
be broken. The activist is a mortal foe of the Humanis cultists.
ATTRIBUTES SKILLS

Body: 2 Etiquette (Media): 5
Quickness: 2 Interrogation: 3
Strength: 2 Leadership: 3
Charisma: 2 Negotiation: 3
Intelligence: 2

Willpower: 2

Essence: 6

Reaction: 2

Professional Rating: 2-3

 

SHADOWRUN 209
 

MR. JOHNSON

“Let me assure you that | fully understand your position. | hope
you understand mine. Let’s just say it would be very uncomfortable
for all concerned were any news of this to be made public knowl-
edge. I’m quite sure that we can rely on your discretion.
QUOTES

“If you're caught, we never heard of you before.”

“This conversation never took place. Understand?”

“It’s a small job. Minimal complications.”

“Payment will be handled the usual way. You may check your
accounts before you leave, if you like.”

COMMENTARY

Mr. Johnson may not look the same the next time you see him.
He may not even be a he. But don’t be fooled—he’s the man. Mr.
Johnson is the generic slang term for a corporate-insider connec-
tion. He’s got the bucks and he’s got the jobs. And he’s also got a
private army to hunt you down if you cross him.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 2 Computer Theory: 5
Quickness: 2 Etiquette (Corporate): 8

Strength: 2 Negotiation: 6
Charisma: 4 Psychology: 8
Intelligence: 6 Special Skill
Willpower: 5 History: 4
Essence: 3.8
Reaction: 4

CYBERWARE

Datajack, 200 Mp of Memory
Professional Rating: 2-3

 

SQUATTER

“Watchu staring at, chummer? Ain't ya never seen a poor
person? Watchu doing here? This squat’s mine! Whoa, calm down.
Don’t want no trouble. Let’s not get violent. | can find another.
Always have. Just let me slip past ya. | won't say nothing. Truth. Real
truth. Not a word.”
QUOTES

“Mind your own biz.”

“Ain't seen nothing. Ain't heard nothing.”

“| wasn't always like this.”

“Dey went dat way.”
COMMENTARY

The squatter is a tough victim of the underside of the metroplex,
hardened and beaten down by life in the slums. He is a survivor who
tries to roll with the punches, and still wants to see another day. In

one piece.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 2 Etiquette (Street): 3
Quickness: 2 Special Skills
Strength: 1 Know Neighborhood: 6
Charisma: 1 Scrounge: 6
Intelligence: 2
Willpower: 2
Essence: 6
Reaction: 2

Professional Rating: 1-2



STREET COP

“When I signed on with Lone Star, | believed all their recruit-
ment hype. | was young. | know better now, but I’m still working
for them. Guess I like the job. I'd feel better about the job if they were
real police, but them days are long gone. We're businessmen now.
Still, the streets should be safe. | believe that. Guess that’s why I’m
still doing the job.”
QUOTES

“Look, I’m just doing my job.”

“Let’s not have any trouble here.”

“Dead or alive, you're coming with me.”

“Don’t try it, chummer. Don’t even think it.”
COMMENTARY

The street cop is a slightly disillusioned, frustrated, but still
determined servant of the law. He works for an independent
corporation rather than the government. It means better benefits,
but lesser prestige. He has learned to live with this, too. A few cops
have, as always, succumbed to the temptations of their positions
and become “bad cops,” but most remain true to their honor.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 4 Armed Combat: 2

Quickness: 4 Etiquette (Corporate): 2
Strength: 4 Etiquette (Street): 4
Charisma: 2 Firearms: 3
Intelligence: 3 Unarmed Combat: 3
Willpower: 3 Special Skill

Essence: 6 Police Procedures: 4
Reaction: 3

Professional Rating: 2

STREET DOC

“In trouble again? No, don’t tell me about it! It’s better for both
of us if | don’t know. Just keep your mouth shut and don’t squirm
until the local takes effect. I'd wait, but you're the one in a hurry.”
QUOTES

“Stop bleeding on the floor.”

“Interested in a good deal on some vat tissue? Source says it’s
real Chiba stock. | could stitch it down while I've got you opened up.
No? Maybe a little cosmetic work since | have the laser scalpels out?”

“This is the third time this year. Haven’t you any respect for
quality craftsmanship?”

COMMENTARY

The street doc may be a quack or he may be a top-flight
surgeon, but either way he’s an outlaw’s best friend. He'll always
keep his mouth shut and won't report any suspicious wounds to the
corp-sec or register your augmentations with the manufacturer for
full-warranty coverage. He’s got his own skeletons in the closet.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 2 Biological Sciences: 6
Quickness: 3 Biotech: 8
Strength: 2 Etiquette (Street): 3
Charisma: 2 Negotiation: 4
Intelligence: 4
Willpower: 2
Essence: 5.8
Reaction: 3

CYBERWARE
Datajack

Professional Rating: 1-2



SHADOWRUN 211
RSE

TALISMONGER

“If you're looking for the magical goods, | got ’em. Powders,
bones, potions. Only the best ingredients and materials. What did
you have in mind? If! don’t have it, | can make arrangements to get
it. I've got a lot of friends all over the 'plex and not a few outside
of it.”

QUOTES

“First, let’s see the cred balance, chummer.”

“On my uncle’s spirit! It really is elven (or dwarf or ork or troll)
workmanship.”

“Of course, | can’t guarantee that it’ll work under all condi-
tions.”

COMMENTARY

The talismonger is a broker of magical goods and services, sort
of an occult middle-woman. Sometimes she will moonlight as a
fence for stolen magical materials as well as information.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 2 Etiquette (Street): 4
Quickness: 3 Magical Theory: 8

Strength: 3 Negotiation: 6

Charisma: 2 Sorcery: 4

Intelligence: 3 Special Skills

Willpower: 4 Evaluate Magical Goods: 6
Essence: 6 Woodworking: 4

Magic: 6 Metalworking: 4

Reaction: 3

Professional Rating: 1-2

 


 

TRIBAL CHIEF

“You are sitting in the council lodge of my people, stranger.
You do not give orders here. You may make a request, and the
council may consider your words, but no demand will be made
here. If we find it in the interests of the tribe, we may agree to do
as you ask.”
QUOTES

“lam the chief. They do the singing.”

“Do you play chess?”

“| havea fine horse, so who needs a car? A horse is a renewable
resource. Have you had any success breeding your car lately?”

“Before | present you to the tribe, | will have to check your file
on the council database.”
COMMENTARY

The tribal chief is a man wise in the ways of the modern world,
not just the ancient traditions. He must be well-aware of technology
and the corporations if he is to guide his tribe well. He therefore
makes it a point to know what is going on around him at all times.
ATTRIBUTES SKILLS

Body: 3 Etiquette (Corporate): 4
Quickness: 3 Etiquette (Tribal): 8
Strength: 4 Leadership: 5
Charisma: 4 Negotiation: 4

Intelligence: 4 Projectile Weapons: 4
Willpower: 4 Psychology: 5
Essence: 6 Stealth: 5

Reaction: 3

Professional Rating: 1-2

 

212 SHADOWRUN
 

TROLL BOUNCER

“Don’t make trouble and you won't get hurt.”
QUOTES

“I think dat it’s time for youse to leave, shorty.”

“Dat supposed to hurt?”

“Youse talkin’ to me?”

“Closin’ time.
COMMENTARY

Troll bouncers are popular in many clubs, and not just the
tougher ones, either. Any club owner would rather see a trouble-
maker leave without causing a commotion. A troll is just the right
one to get the job done. Few drunks will argue with a mountain of
muscle.

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 9 Armed Combat: 3
Quickness: 3 Etiquette (Street): 2
Strength: 9 Firearms: 2
Charisma: 1 Unarmed Combat: 6
Intelligence: 1
Willpower: 2
Essence: 6
Reaction: 2

Professional Rating: 2-3

 

YAKUZA BOSS

“The times now are not what they once were. This is life. A man
who wishes to be successful must adapt as society changes. We in
the yakuza have done so, preserving as much of the old, honorable
| ways as possible while at the same time learning the new. Society
| will always need us. We are a vital part of the way the world works.”
QUOTES

“The new men are nothing more than gangsters and ruffians.
They have no real sense of honor. And the Koreans and the Chinese
are mere barbarians.”

COMMENTARY

The yakuza boss, despite his philosophizing and courteous
manners, is still a criminal mastermind. His true designs are
ruthless, yet he always seeks to spread a veneer of culture and
gentility over his rough edges. The older bosses prefer influence-
peddling and embarrassment tactics over the crude intimidation
and violence favored by the new blood.

 

 

ATTRIBUTES SKILLS
Body: 3 Etiquette (Corporate): 4
Quickness: 4 Etiquette (Street): 5
Strength: 3 Leadership: 5
Charisma: 5 Negotiation: 6
Intelligence: 6
Willpower: 5
Essence: 3.2
Reaction: 5

CYBERWARE
Datajack, with 60 Mp of Memory

Wired Reflexes (1)

Professional Rating: 3-4

 

SHADOWRUN 213
CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 

All your weapons and cyberjunk don’t mean drek when
you hear the barghest HOWL!
—Ad copy for the simsense thriller Howl.

OWERS OF THE AWAKENED

i The powers, or innate magical abilities, of the Awakened are varied. Following are
: general descriptions of these powers, which individual creatures may or may not
possess.

Virtually all paranormal beings have some form of attack ability. If they rely on simple
physical capabilities, the details are given with their statistics. Specialized forms of attack
are also noted. These may range from the painful, but mostly annoying, smackon the head with
a frying pan by a hearth spirit, to the shattering lightning bolts of the storm spirits.

[GAMEMASTER’S NOTE: When two directly opposing powers, such as accident and
guard, are applied to the same character, each makes a test, using the other power’s
rating as its target number. The effects of the winning power apply, with a rating equal
to its net successes. This is called an opposed test.

Also note that any game mechanics given with the power descriptions are not
intended as hard and fast rules, but as suggestions to the gamemaster. Players can never
be absolutely certain of the capabilities of the opposition; a chance always exists that the
power will work slightly differently in this particular critter. Uncertainty is a wonderful
dramatic tool.

Because elementals and nature spirits may be summoned, their powers should
remain as consistent as possible.]

ACCIDENT

Accident power gives a being the ability to cause an apparently normal accident
to occur. The nature of the accident and its result will vary according to the terrain
the being controls.

 

 

214 SHADOWRUN


TASES

Cae er ae

r Retna Peal ACC
Pea TWN ARS
Rat eee

BUT CRRRTCC TER CT



SHADOWRUN 215
CRITTERS

A character hit with accident power must make a test using
Quickness or Intelligence (whichever is higher), with a target
number equal to the Essence of the being using the power. If the
character fails the test, its action is lost as it trips, gets a mouthful of
leaves, or even a cream pie in the face. Accident is not dangerous
in itself, but the environment can make it so. A fall on a narrow
mountain ledge, for instance, can be most unfortunate.

ALIENATION

Alienation power gives the being the ability to enshroud its
victim(s) in an aura that makes the victim invisible to others. Treat
this as an invisibility spell, with a Force Rating equal to the being’s
Essence. A victim will remain under alienation power for a number
of hours equal to the empowered creature’s Essence.

The alienation power is not intended as the kind of beneficial
power of invisibility. Victims of alienation are invisible, intangible,
and inaudible to those around them. It is as if those afflicted by this
power do not exist at all. Drivers will not stop for them, no one talks

PARANATURALISM

Earth is home to an almost limitless variety of animals.
Even in the trying times of the late twentieth and early twenty-
first centuries, new species continued to be discovered while
others slipped into extinction. During the turbulent period of
the Awakening, more new species and subspecies were
identified than in any period since the development of scien-
tific classification (even after discounting numerous mutations
or outright hoaxes).

The explosion of novel and variant life forms has led to the
development of several new fields of scientific study often
combined under the heading of paranaturalism. Paranaturalists
specialize in species identified after 2000, and many further
specialize in aspects such as parabiology, parasociology (es-
pecially among the various metahuman and officially recog-
nized sentient species), and paranatural biotechnology. Some
researchers are even investigating fossil life forms for evidence
of paraspecies. Research into the origins of these paraspecies
has yielded some fascinating theories.

Most paraspecies seem to be a particular expression of
DNA in the presence of high levels of magical energy. In these
species, one generation gives birth to paraspecies young but
remains unaffected itself. In time, the natural species will
vanish, replaced completely by the paraspecies.

In certain cases, all or part of the natural species under-
goes “goblinization” as some threshold is crossed in the rising
tide of magic. Unless the whole species changes en masse, the
natural species continues (as in the human species), but will
produce individuals of the paraspecies at later birthings.
Occasionally, an apparently normal individual of such a species
will express paranormal traits or capabilities at puberty.

A few species consistently produce young resembling the
original natural species but who undergo goblinization at
puberty. Most such individuals are hostile and vicious.

216 SHADOWRUN

 

to them, their friends shoot through them to hit targets. Despair fills
their soul.

The victim must achieve 1 success, using whatever Attribute or
skill seems appropriate, against the critter’s Essence as the target
number, in order to avoid a dangerous situation or to get someone's
attention.

ANIMAL CONTROL

Some beings have heightened empathy with animals, usually
limited to a particular type, such as predators or scaled animals. This
power allows the being to automatically prevent that animal from
attacking, giving an alarm, and so on. By concentrating, the being can
control an individual animal, experiencing the world through its
senses and directing its behavior. This behavior would fall within what
is normal for the animal's type. That is, a controlled monkey could not
drive a car. The number of small animals (cats, rats, and so on) that a
creature may control is equal to its (Charisma)D6. A being may control a
number of larger animals (wolves, lions, and so on) equal to its Charisma.

The most perplexing problem facing paranaturalists is
the existence of several paraspecies of vertebrates that have
three pairs of limbs, with one pair typically forming a set of
wings. Most familiar of these are western dragons and
griffins. The presence of six limbs violates long-standing
theories of vertebrate evolution, and no satisfactory explana-
tion yet exists. Even the normally garrulous and opinionated
great dragon (his classification) Dunkelzahn refuses to ad-
dress the issue.

However, careful examination of Dunkelzahn’s early
interviews with representatives of the world media reveals
several references to an “awakening.” These very comments
were what prompted Holly Brighton to label the new global
condition as the Awakened world. The same comments led
some researchers to conclude that the great dragons came
into being when a certain mana level was reached, manifest-
ing from a kind of collective unconscious template. Most
scientific circles give little credence to this theory, even
though it accounts for the dragon's six-limbed form.

Acountertheory posits that the great dragons are visitors
from another world where a six-legged form is the vertebrate
pattern, but the scientific community generally rejects this
idea as well. The popular belief that the great dragons
awakened from a millennia-long sleep seems equally incred-
ible.

In all cases save the alien-life form approach, the theories
cannot account for dragons and other six-limbed forms.
According to the alien-origin theory, these arrived on Earth,
along with other paraspecies, via a “space ark.” This, too, is
unlikely, as the paraspecies in question appeared at distinctly
different times.

—Excerpt from the introduction to Changeling Terra: A
New View of Life, by Gamiel Shaath and Miguel Martinez



BINDING

Binding gives a being the power to make its victim “stick” to
asurface or to itself. The binding has a Strength Rating equal to twice
the being’s Essence.

COMPULSION

A being with compulsion power can compel its victim to
perform a specific action, as with a post-hypnotic suggestion. Often
a being may only compel one particular action. Treat as a control
actions spell, using the being’s Essence for the spell’s Force Rating.

CONCEALMENT

This power refers to a being’s ability to hide within its terrain
rather than to its own ability to become invisible. This power is
generally associated with nature spirits. A being can use conceal-
ment power to hide itself and its companions from danger, or
alternatively, can use the power to hide something that people are
seeking. Concealment adds the being’s Essence Rating to the target
number of any Perception Tests the gamemaster requires.

CONFUSION

Confusion power gives a being the ability to make its victims
lose their sense of direction and wander in confusion through the
terrain it controls. The consequences may vary widely. A hearth
spirit causing confusion in a house might lead to nothing worse than
someone bumping into walls or mistaking a closet door for an exit.
Confusion in the realm of a mountain spirit could easily lead
someone to topple off the nearest cliff.

Characters who attempt any form of Success Test while under
this power are subject to a negative target modifier equal to the
Essence of the being using the power. In addition, whenever the
victim must make any decision, he must make a Willpower Test
with a target number equal to the being’s Essence. If he fails, he is
unable to make up his mind. Something or someone must remind
him of the need for a decision. An attack, or a verbal reminder from
acompanion, provides an opportunity for another test. If left alone
in this state, a character will eventually wander off.

The power remains in effect as long as the victim remains
within the area of terrain controlled by the being.

ELECTRICAL PROJECTION

Electrical projection power gives a being the power to strike a
target with a discharge of electricity. Depending on the being,
results may range from a mild shock to a lightning bolt. A victim can
neither dodge nor defend against electrical projection attacks.
Typically, such attacks do (Essence)M damage and disorient the
target for a number of turns equal to the being’s Essence.

ENGULF

Engulf power gives a being the ability to draw its victim into
itself or the terrain or element appropriate to its nature. The victim
is subject to all effects of being submerged in the substance, the
least of which is usually suffocation.

The gamemaster should make an opposed test between the
victim's Willpower and the creature’s Essence, each using the
opposition’s rating as the target number. Compare the total number
of successes. If the creature generates more successes, the victim

 

 

will enter the substance and begin to suffocate or suffer other
appropriate damage. The victim cannot escape as long as the
creature maintains his power against him. An attack on another
victim (the being using either a power or else physically) will release
the first one from the engulf power.

For each tum that a character is suffocating, the player makes a
Body Test against a Damage Code of (being’s Essence)M Stun.
Dermal plating and armor do not count toward resisting this damage.

Spirits with this power follow these rules:

The engulf attack is a melee attack. The spirit uses its Quickness
to hit the target. Targets must counterattack successfully to avoid
engulfment. If a victim is engulfed, the effects vary.

Every time it is the victim’s action, he or she can try to escape.
Make an opposed test using the victim’s Strength and the spirit’s
Essence against a base Target Number 4. If the victim wins,
freedom! On each of the spirit’s actions, engulfed victims must
resist appropriate damage.

Fire Engulf: Same as if struck by the spirit in combat; [(Essence)M
damage, add +2 Power for flame aura]. The character must resist
(Essence +2)M damage. Impact armor helps against this damage,
but not ballistic armor, which tends to melt.

Water Engulf: Victim must resist (Essence)M Stun damage.
The power is modified by +1 for each action that the spirit has had
since engulfing the victim. This is rougher than normal drowning,
because the spirit is capable of exerting great pressure on engulfed
victims. Victims who pass out are still exposed to damage during
the spirit’s actions, and will take Lethal damage as a result.
Eventually, they will drown.

Air Engulf: Victim must resist (Essence)S Stun effects of the
noxious breath power using Willpower or Body, whichever is
greater. Because the spirit can astrally penetrate breathing gear or
other protective systems, these provide no defense. The engulfed
victim begins to take Lethal damage after being rendered uncon-
scious, and eventually suffocates.

Earth Engulf: Victim must resist (Essence)S damage from the
crushing weight of the spirit. Impact armor defends against this, but
not ballistic.

ENHANCED PHYSICAL ATTRIBUTES

With this power, a being adds its current Essence Rating to its
Physical Attributes. This power to enhance may be limited to
specific Attribute(s) and/or in duration and number of uses.

ENHANCED SENSES

Enhanced senses power includes low-light and thermographic
vision, improved hearing and smell, heat-sensing organs, sonar,
motion detection (ability to detect electrical field disturbances), and
so on.

ESSENCE DRAIN

Essence drain power allows a being to drain the Essence from
another, adding the points to its own rating. The being may increase
its Essence Rating to a maximum of twice the maximum for its type.
Humanoid beings, therefore, have a maximum Essence Rating of 12.

Essence is transferred only in the presence of strong emotion.
This can be a lover’s passion, the terror of an unwilling victim, or the
rage of a defeated enemy, but it must be strong and it must be

 

SHADOWRUN 217
CRITTERS

directed personally at the being. The Essence drain usually requires
some transfer of physical material, such as blood for a vampire or
flesh for a wendigo, though often only a token amount.

A being draining Essence requires some minutes undisturbed.
The being may drain as many points of Essence as it currently
possesses. The minimum drain is 1 point.

A being cannot drain Essence from a fiercely resisting victim.
The victim must participate willingly or must be physically or
magically subdued. The psychic stimulus of the being’s touch (such
as a vampire’s bite) opens an empathic link between the being and
his victim, who will feel ecstasy at being drained. The release of
endorphins and other changes in body chemistry triggered by this
experience can be addictive. A victim must make a Willpower Test
against a Target Number 4 each time he or she is drained. Failure
indicates addiction, and the subject will actively cooperate in hopes
of receiving another session. This will, of course, lead to a rapid loss
of Essence and the death of the addict.

Beings can drain Essence from other beings with essence drain
power without the necessity of strong emotional energy, but the
contact still requires undisturbed time. The action requires an
Essence Test using a Target Number 4 for both beings. The being
achieving the most successes drains the other of Essence equal to
the extra successes. For example, two vampires with Essence
Ratings of 5 each are locked in a transfer. Each rolls 5 dice. The first
scores 3 successes, the other scores 5. The second vampire will
drain 2 points of Essence from the first. A vampire whose Essence
is reduced to O in this manner dies at once and permanently.

FEAR

This gives a being the power to fill its victims with overwhelm-
ing fear of either the terrain or of the being. The victim will race in
panic for the nearest point of apparent safety.

The gamemaster should make a test pitting the victim's
Willpower against the creature’s Essence, each using the opposition’s
rating as the target number. The creature’s net number of successes
is used to gauge the severity of the victim's fear.

FLAME AURA

Flame aura power gives a being the ability to make its surface
ripple with flame, burning any who touch it. Intense forms of this
power may make wooden weapons burst into flame at a touch or
even melt metal or plastic weapons. The flames add +2 to the Power
of any successful melee attack.

Any successful melee attack against a creature with flame aura
power means that the attacker also takes damage from the intense
heat. The attacker must make a Body Test against a Damage Code
of (being’s Essence)M. Armor may help resist this damage if the
gamemaster agrees that the attacker struck the creature with an
armored portion of his or her body.

FLAME PROJECTION

With this power, a being can project flames, often in the form
of fiery breath. This attack has a Damage Code of (Essence)L.

A being may sustain the attack, but will suffer Drain in the same
way a magician does, as Drain (Essence)S. When the attack is
sustained, the being spreads the effect of the attack over a number

 

of square meters equal to its Essence.
Highly flammable items may be ignited by a flame projection
attack.

GUARD

Guard power gives the being the capacity to prevent any
accident—both natural and those caused by accident power—
within the terrain controlled by the being.

HARDENED ARMOR

Creatures with hardened armor have an exoskeleton possess-
ing the same qualities as vehicle armor. See Vehicles, Weapons,
and Magic, p. 108, for more information.

IMMUNITY TO AGE
With this power, a being will not age, and will never suffer the
debilitating effects of advanced age.

IMMUNITY TO NORMAL WEAPONS

This power gives a being an Armor Rating equal to double its
Essence when resisting damage from ordinary weapons. This
power has no effect against magical weapons. Against elemental
damage (such as fire, lack of air, water cannon, and so on), the effect
is halved (the being has an Armor Rating equal to its Essence).

IMMUNITY TO PATHOGENS
This immunity gives the being additional dice equal to double
its Essence when making tests to resist infection or disease.

IMMUNITY TO POISONS

This immunity gives the being additional dice equal to double
its Essence when making tests to resist the effects of a toxin (poison
or drug).

INFECTION

When a being that drains Essence (such as a vampire) has
reduced a victim’s Essence to O, the victim will sicken and appar-
ently die. Shortly after this “death,” the individual will return to life
as a being of the type that drained the Essence (Essence still equals
0). Such “newborn” creatures are dangerous. Though they are
barely conscious of their new state, instinct will drive them to satisfy
their hunger in any way they can.

After their “deaths,” characters so infected are no longer under
the control of their player, but come under the gamemaster’s
control.

INFLUENCE

Influence power allows a being to insinuate suggestions into
the mind of a victim, predisposing that person to some form of
action, reaction, or emotion. Make a test matching the being’s
Charisma Attribute (or Essence, if it has no Charisma) against the
victim's Willpower, each using the opponent's rating as the target
number. Use the number of net successes as a guide to how
strongly the suggestion is taken.

[GAMEMASTER’S NOTE: The ability to Influence fear is consid-
erably less effective than the power of Fear.]

 

218 SHADOWRUN
eS A)

MAGICAL GUARD
The being’s magical guard power (which is equal to its
Essence) serves as spell defense for the person(s) it is warding.

MANIFESTATION

An astral being with manifestation power may temporarily
manifest in the physical world. When doing so, its Physical Attribute
Rating is the same as its Essence Rating, unless some modifier is
specified in the description of that being. The minimum manifested
Rating is 1. Moreover, the Essence Rating of these beings functions
as spell defense.

When an attacker strikes or shoots at a manifested spirit with
a mundane weapon, use the character's Willpower Attribute in-
stead of the usual attack skill. Against spirit foes, unshakable
strength of will is more important than weapon skill. Attacks with
weapon foci, other magical attacks, and attacks using a spirit’s
vulnerability (see below) are not subject to this rule.

In addition, manifested spirits have the power of immunity to
normal weapons against ranged combat attacks, for these do not
carry the full “charge” of the attacker's will. Against such attacks,
spirits have “armor” equal to twice their Force.

They do not, however, have this power against melee attacks
because there is nothing to reduce the effects of their opponent's
courage in close combat.

In addition, spirits in astral form receive a +20 to their Initiative,
and a +10 when manifest.

MIST FORM

The being can transform its body into a mist, apparently by
controlling the molecular cohesion of its cells. A mist can pass
through any crack or crevice that is not airtight, even penetrating
filtration systems that are proof against gases or pollution. Systems
that are proof against bacterial or viral incursions will stop a being
in mist form. While in mist form, the being has the additional power
of immunity to normal weapons, including weapons to which it has
avulnerability. While in mist form, a being can be affected by magic.
If the being is exposed to a substance to which it is allergic, it will
be forced to return to its corporeal form. (The easiest allergen to
apply to this purpose is sunlight. Other substances require that a
fine spray of powder or liquid be directed into the mist). A being
must use a Complex Action to shift form. If forced out of mist form,
the change is instantaneous.

MOVEMENT

The being may increase or decrease its victim’s movement rate
within the terrain it controls, multiplying or dividing the rate by the
being’s Essence.

NOXIOUS BREATH

The nauseating effects of the being’s breath incapacitate the
victim. The victim makes a Willpower or Body Test (whichever
rating is greater) against the spell’s Damage Code (being’s Essence)S
Stun. Armor and dermal plating do not help resist damage in this
test.



PARALYZING TOUCH (HOWL)

Any touch (including an attack that does no damage) reduces
the victim’s Quickness by the being’s Essence rating for 2D6
minutes. Multiple touches can cause multiple reductions in Quick-
ness. A victim whose Quickness is reduced to 0 is incapable of any
movement. To continue breathing, it must make a Willpower Test
each minute against a target number of the being’s Essence. If the
victim fails one of these tests, it has stopped breathing and will die
in 1D6 minutes unless the paralysis effect wears off before that time
or someone applies first aid.

The aural form of this power is called paralyzing howl and
requires a test pitting the critter’s Essence against the target’s
Willpower and vice versa, in order to be effective. The critter needs
only 1 success to affect the target.

PESTILENCE
The victim is subject to an infection of a disease similar to
VITAS-3.

PETRIFYING GAZE

If the victim meets the being’s eyes, it must make a test using
its Intelligence Attribute against a target number of the being’s
Essence Rating. A being can keep a number of victims petrified
equal to its Essence Rating. A failed test means that the only actions
a victim can perform are attempts to break the spell, which require
the same test described above.

PSYCHOKINESIS
The being may generate psychokinetic energy with a Strength
equal to its Essence Rating, similar to the magic fingers spell.

REGENERATION

The being cannot be killed by wounds except when the
damage injures the spine or brain. Check for this type of damage
whenever the being takes a Deadly wound or its cumulative
wounds take it down. Roll 1D6. A result of | indicates that the being
is, indeed, dead. Otherwise, wounds still hurt the being, giving
penalties to actions as for normal characters, but if the wounds do
not cause death, the wounds vanish at the beginning of the next
Combat Turn.

Damage from weapons that cause massive tissue damage
(fire, explosion, and so on) will also kill on a 1D6 die roll result of 1
or 2.

SEARCH

The being may seek any person, place, or object within its
terrain. Its rating for perceiving hidden objects or persons is equal
to twice its Essence. To remain undiscovered, a character or object
must make a successful opposed test, as described at the beginning
of this chapter.

VENOM
The being’s attack is poisonous, with a Damage Code of
(Essence)S. Treat as a toxin with a speed of 1 tum.

 

SHADOWRUN 219
 

WEAKNESSES OF AWAKENED
BEINGS

Even as new species came into existence wielding new and
unexpected powers, these life forms also carried certain major and
minor disadvantages that could be exploited. Perhaps these weak-
nesses were nature’s attempt to even up the score.

ALLERGY

Many beings suffer reactions to one or more substances or
conditions. Usually, the effects only last while the being is in contact
with the substance. Common allergy-causing substances include
sunlight, ferrous metals, holy objects (such allergies appear to be
psychosomatic), plastics, and pollutants.

Nuisance: Annoys the being but has no significant game
effects.

Mild: Causes discomfort and distracts the being (add +1 to all
target numbers).

Severe: The touch of the substance is painful to the being, often
forcing retreat. If contact is prolonged, a reaction will occur. Add +2
to the Power of weapons made of the substance.

Extreme: Even the slightest touch of the substance results in a
reaction and causes Physical damage to the being. Add +2 to the
Power of weapons made of the substance, as for a Severe allergy,
and such a weapon also causes a Light wound.

ESSENCE LOSS

The being has no inherent Essence. It gains Essence only by
regularly consuming the Essence of others. The being loses 1 point
of Essence every month.

 

A being whose Essence is reduced to O will die within days,
perhaps even hours. During this period, the being is extremely
dangerous because, whatever its normal nature, it now behaves as a
starved predator and will hunt fresh Essence with mindless ferocity.

REDUCED SENSES
Any or all of the being’s senses may be limited in effectiveness.
Typically, reduced senses function at half the normal rating.

VULNERABILITY

The metabolism of some beings is disrupted drastically by
objects made of particular substances. The Damage Level of such
weapons increases by 1. For example, a 2L wooden club would be a
2M weapon against a being vulnerable to wood.

Beings recover (or regenerate) from wounds inflicted by the
substance to which they are vulnerable at the same speed at which
they recover from wounds caused by other sources.

Simple contact with the substance is treated as a Nuisance
allergy reaction.

CYBERWARE FOR CRITTERS

Critters may be equipped with cyberware, usually bodyware.
Such operations tend to unhinge the animals, making them vicious
and barely controllable. Cyber-modified animals are as likely to attack
their handlers as intended targets. When unleashing such an animal,
roll 1D6. If the result equals or exceeds the animal’s Essence Rating,
it will turn on its handler.

Headware designed to control this tendency makes the animal
more stupid and less perceptive, as well as lowering its Essence
further. Each control implant lowers Essence by 1 and subtracts 2 from
the die roll made when checking the animal's behavior. Each implant
also lowers the animal’s Mental Attribute Rating by 1.

 

220 SHADOWRUN


SELECTED AWAKENED BEINGS

The following descriptions are excerpted from the well-re-
spected Paterson Field Guide Series, volume 23, Field Guide to the
Awakened.

The sizes and weights listed in the identifications are typical of
an adult member of the species. Larger (often 10 to 20 percent and
occasionally as much as 30 percent) and smaller (typically 60 to 75
percent in a species displaying gender size-differences) individuals
are possible. A description of coloration and distinctive physical
characteristics follows.

The habitats listed are those preferred by the creature. Obvi-
ously, the creatures may be encountered away from that environ-
ment, especially if being used as a guardian or watchdog.

Many beings display magic powers without being magicians,
achieving feats possible only through magic, such as the ability to fly
in defiance of aerodynamic laws. This magical capability is described
as innate. Beings that can function as magicians are termed active.

Many paraspecies are known worldwide. The field guide entry
lists the area where the species was originally identified. Usually this
was the home range of the natural species from which the paranatural
species emerged.

Specific powers and weaknesses observed in the species are
listed, as are special characteristics such as enhanced senses power.
The strengths of certain powers (such as various attack forms) are
listed with the creature’s game statistics.

BANSHEE

Noxplorator letalis
Identification: This creature is indistinguishable from an elf, save
that it may appear very gaunt. All elven authorities and many
paranatural specialists deny that a banshee is an elf.
Similar Species: The vampire (p. 231) and the wendigo (p. 232)
share certain close similarities with this creature.
Habitat: The banshee prefers desolate places near human habita-
tions.
Magic Capability: Many innate abilities, including evidence of
active magic capability among some specimens.
Habits: Noctumal. The banshee is solitary and reclusive except
when hunting. Unlike the vampire, it appears to survive completely
on Essence derived from its terrified victims. The creature wails,
instilling fear to the point of blind panic in its prey, which will flee
in mindless terror. The banshee pursues until its victim is physically
exhausted, then closes for the kill. The final attack is, apparently, a
form of assault, which leaves its target an apparent victim of cardiac
arrest. The banshee rarely shows any restraint, almost always
draining a victim in the initial attack.
Range: Worldwide
Commentary: Paranaturalist Charles Forte has advanced the hy-
pothesis that the banshee is the typical expression of HMHVV
(Human-Metahuman Vampiric Virus) in elves.
Powers: Enhanced Senses (Low-Light Vision; Smell; Hearing),
Essence Drain, Fear, Immunity (Age, Pathogens, Toxins), Mist Form,
Regeneration
Weaknesses: Allergy (Sunlight, Severe), Essence Loss, Vulnerabil-
ity (Wood, Silver)

 

 

BARGHEST

Canis inferni
Identification: The barghest’s head and body reach a length of 1.5
meters, but its height at the shoulder is only .9 meters. Its tail
measures .7 meters, and its typical weight is 80 kilograms. The
barghest resembles an oversized mastiff of pure white or pure black.
Its fur is very short and lies flat on its body, which sometimes gives
the impression of a naked hide. Its ears are sharply pointed and set
high on its head. A protruding spine runs along the back. Even in the
absence of reflected light, the barghest’s eyes shine red and its teeth
glow slightly in the dark because of luminescent bacteria in its saliva.
Its skull has 42 teeth. The female barghest has eight mammae.
Similar Species: At night, the barghest is often confused with the
common heilhound (not included in this selection), especially in its
black variation, but even low light reveals the distinctive wolf-like
outline of the hellhound that distinguishes it easily from the barghest.
Habitat: Wilderness forests, tundra, and moors
Magic Capability: Innate
Habits: Nocturnal. The barghest hunts alone or in pairs during
breeding season, but may travel in packs of twelve or more during
the rest of the year. It feeds on anything available, primarily large
mammals that it pursues to exhaustion before closing for the kill.
Hunting range is 100 kilometers or more in diameter. The breeding
season lasts from late winter to early spring.
Young: Birth occurs in the spring, usually in litters of six to seven
pups. These are a mottled gray, darkening or lightening as they
mature, usually within two years.
Range: Northern portions of North America, Europe, and Asia
Commentary: The barghest’s howl induces a fear reaction in
humans and many animals. The beast uses the howl to herd prey,
the pitch shifting once the prey is cornered and often causing near-
catatonia in its victim.
Powers: Fear, Paralyzing Howl (opposes Willpower), Enhanced
Senses (Sonar)
Weaknesses: Allergy (Sunlight, Strong)

BASILISK

Varanis lapidis
Identification: The basilisk’s head and body length average 1.5
meters and its height at the shoulder is .2 meters. Its tail is about 1
meter long, and its total body weight is about 1 00 kilograms. Its skin
is covered with knobby scales in a pattern of black and bright
yellow, which condenses to a solid black at the muzzle and the end
of the tail. The skull has 40 saw-edged teeth that are usually of
several sizes and are constantly renewed.
Similar Species: In size and shape, the basilisk resembles the
Komodo dragon and other large lizards. In fact, the similarity of its
color pattern to that of the young Komodo dragon leads some
researchers to believe that the basilisk is an Awakened variant.
Habitat: The basilisk prefers the rain forest or open woodland in
temperate or tropical zones.
Magic Capability: Innate
Habits: The basilisk is most active during the day, especially in the
morning hours. It is normally a solitary animal that is often drawn,
possibly by the smell of blood, to the site of a fresh kill. It feeds
primarily on small animals, usually mammals, but will devour
anything it can catch. Its natural camouflage blends in with the rocky

 

SHADOWRUN 221
CRITTERS

outcrops where it nests. Though fiercely territorial, the basilisk
ranges up to ten kilometers from its den to forage for food. Its life
expectancy is thirteen years in captivity, eight to ten years in the
wild. Its breeding season is in the spring.

Young: The female basilisk lays three to twelve eggs in late spring.
Hatchlings emerge six weeks later.

Economic Value: Some elements of society use young basilisks as
biotech guard systems, but older individuals have proven too
difficult to habituate to new surroundings.

Range: Originally confined to the Indonesian archipelago, the
species has spread worldwide as specimens trapped or bred for
guard functions have escaped and bred in suitable environments.
Commentary: Paranaturalists believe that the basilisk uses a mana
spell to calcify its victim. It is believed that in some unknown way the
minerals in the victim’s body are vital to the creature’s metabolism.
Powers: Petrifying Gaze

Weaknesses: Allergy (Extreme, Reflection of own gaze. Failure to
achieve 2 successes on a Body Test with a Target Number 6 results
in a crumbling basilisk statue.)

COCKATRICE

Aveterror lapidaris
Identification: The cockatrice’s head and body commonly measure
2 meters. Its tail is 1.2 meters long, and its total body weight is
about 40 kilograms. The cockatrice is a long-legged, bird-like,
feathered creature whose predominant coloration is yellow. The
head has a bright red coxcomb and a sharp, horny beak.
Similar Species: Large adult specimens are often confused with the
phoenix (p. 229), but the presence of the fleshy comb on the head
and the long, scaled tail should warn the observer to avoid the
animal. Its touch is dangerous.
Habitat: The cockatrice prefers open plains and scrubland, but is
also known to frequent open woodlands.
Magic Capability: Innate
Habits: Diurnal. Though capable of limited and awkward flight, the
cockatrice is better adapted to running. It prefers to chase down its
prey, often rising briefly into the air to strike downward with its
taloned feet. The cockatrice feeds on animals weighing from 10 to 80
kilograms. Nests are defended by both parents until the eggs hatch,
when one parent (possibly the female) departs. The other becomes
guardian of the chicks for the next several months. Specimens have
lived up to 25 years in captivity. Breeding season is in spring.
Young: The cockatrice nest consists of 12 to 15 eggs that hatch after
a 35-day gestation. The chicks, which are covered with dun-colored,
hair-like feathers, are capable of running with their parent shortly after
hatching. The young resemble that of the Australian emu, a bird most
paranaturalists believe to be the low-mana form of this animal.
Economic Value: Like the basilisk, the cockatrice is in demand as a
security animal. Only unhatched eggs are selected, as the newly
hatched chick must be imprinted on a handler before it can be trained.
Range: The cockatrice’s range has expanded greatly in recent years.
It is now found worldwide.
Commentary: The adult cockatrice has the paranatural ability to
paralyze with a touch from its tail. In its leaping attack, it whips its
tail around in an attempt to paralyze its target.
Powers: Paralyzing Touch, Invulnerability (Own touch)

 

DRACOFORMS

Within the group of dracoform Awakened creatures are several
related types. Though major physical differences are apparent be-
tween the types grouped here, they display a basic similarity even if
no true relationship exists. All are of large size and saurian nature, and
match ancient descriptions of dragons and great serpents said to be
seen in areas where dragons have been sighted since the Awakening.
Magic Capability: All great dragons and some of the lesser dracoforms
are magically active. They usually follow the shamanic tradition.
Habits: Dragons are most active at dawn and dusk, but they also
operate in full daylight and in the dead of night. They feed on live
prey of substantial size, cattle being a favorite food. They prefer to
strike from the sky, swooping rapidly to carry off its victim before
consuming it. Their lairs are caverns in unpopulated areas, which are
often accessible only from the air. The dragon’s aerial hunting
pattern allows it to range more than 200 kilometers from its lair. A
dragon's life expectancy is unknown, though it is believed to be
very long indeed. Its breeding habits are also unknown.
Young: Paranaturalists believe that dragons are oviparous, but no
nests have been discovered. Meridith Perkins has theorized that the
lesser dracoforms are the young of the great dragons.
Economic Value: A worldwide black market deals in dragon body
parts, which has led the Gewald Corporation to offer a bounty for the
apprehension of any documented dragonslayer. We support this
effort to prevent depletion of the population of these majestic
creatures.
Range: Worldwide
Commentary: All dracoforms exhibit a thermal sense unrelated to
vision that is as effective as the thermographic vision of other
Awakened forms. Dracoforms are also all capable of flight, in
defiance of aerodynamic laws, as they appear to utilize some form
of un- or subconscious magic in order to lift their mass.
Common Powers: Enhanced Senses (Wide-Band Hearing, Low-
Light Vision, Thermal Sense)
Powers Observed in Individuals: Animal Control (Reptiles), Influ-
ence, Flame Projection, Noxious Breath, Venom

Eastern Dragon
Draco orientalis

Identification: The eastern dragon's head and body measure 15
meters. Its height at the shoulder is 2 meters, its tail is 15 meters
long, and it weighs 7,500 kilograms. It has a serpentine or lizard-
shape, with a broad, low head adomed with a fringe of whiskers on
the chin and along the rear portions of the skull. Pairs of horns rise
from behind the eyes, and a pair of barbules descend from beneath
the pronounced nasal region. Scaly armor covers the body, neck,
and tail, which are surmounted by a ridge of membrane-connected
spines. The highly dexterous paws are four-fingered, with each
digit ending in a large claw; captive specimens have been taught
to handle fragile porcelain vases without mishap. The commonest
pattern of eastern dragon coloration is iridescent green with golden
whiskers and belly scutes, but other color patterns are known. The
eastern dragon’s skull has 40 teeth.

Similar Species: The sirrush (not included in this selection), indig-
enous to Asia Minor, appears quite similar, but its limbs are longer
and its tail shorter. Its head is narrower and deeper, and it lacks
whiskers and barbules. The digits of the sirrush’s hind paws are all

 

222 SHADOWRUN
Stay

forward-facing and show limited dexterity, though the paw struc-
ture is reversed in the most famous ancient rendition of a sirrush,
which is pictured on the Ishtar Gate.

Habitat: River valleys, mountains, and coastal cliffs

Feathered Serpents

Alatuserpens Quetzalcoatlus
Identification: Most feathered serpents are 20 meters in length
from head to tail, have a wingspan of 15 meters, and weigh 6,000
kilograms. A feathered serpent is a long-bodied dracoform with
one pair of wings and one pair of limbs. Its contour feathers and
prominent feathered ruff are often a dazzling rainbow of colors.
Membranes stretch between the extended finger bones of its large
wings. Behind the wings are a pair of limbs that end in paws for
ground locomotion. These feet have five digits, one of which is like
an opposable thumb, giving it sufficient flexibility to manipulate
objects. The skull contains 60 teeth. Some specimens have a tail
spine connected to a poison sac, and some have a pair of fangs
similarly equipped. The data gathered to date has been insufficient
to determine whether such individuals represent a subspecies of
Quetzalcoatius, or a completely separate species of Alatuserpens.
Similar Species: Similar in form, shape, and habits, though unfeathered,
is the common European wyvem (not included in this selection).
Habitat: Mountains, open forest, and grasslands

Westem Dragon

Draco occidentalis
Identification: The western dragon's head and body are 20 meters
long. It stands 3 meters at shoulder height, its tail is 17 meters long,
and its wingspan is 30 meters. Its adult weight is about 2,000
kilograms. The westerm dragon has four limbs and a pair of wings. Its
horned head is mounted at the end of a long neck. Only its forepaws
exhibit the opposable digits and the dexterity of other dracoforms,
with the hind paws adapted into feet. Dorsal spines and/or mem-
branes may be present. The western dragon is usually a single color,
though darker along the spine, with a pale belly. Some specimens
have dermal armor formed of bony plates, in addition to the normal
heavy scales. Others have small, non-overlapping scales that lend the
appearance of smooth skin. The western dragon's skull has 40 teeth.
Similar Species: The common European wyvem (not included in
this selection) is often mistaken for a western dragon, especially at
a distance or in aerial maneuvers.
Habitat: Mountains, fens, bogs, and dense forests

Great Dragons

Draco sapiens
Identification: The great dragons are extremely large specimens,
often up to 50 percent larger than typical lesser dragons. All the
common dracoforms have great dragons among them. Size is
usually the best indication that an individual is a great dragon, but
it is not entirely reliable.

These creatures claim that they descend from a common lineage,
though have provided no details or proof to back up the assertion.
Therefore, despite the differences in their physical appearance, these
rare and powerful creatures are grouped in a single entry. All great
dragons are intelligent, being conversant in at least one human
language and often many. They are also all magicians of great power.

 

 

 

Habitat: Wherever desired
Known Great Dragons:

Aden, a sirrush, was responsible for demolishing Teheran in
2020, after the ruling ayatollah declared a jihad against the Awak-
ened. Aden is believed to be currently lairing on Mount Ararat.

Dunkelzahn, a western dragon, is the source of much of the
information given here. Shortly after its first appearance, it granted
interviews to a panel of media, including Holly Brighton, in retum
for a substantial portion of the revenue from the interview disks.
Since then, Dunkelzahn has retired to the Rocky Mountains, where
it lairs in Lake Louise and controls the surrounding area as a private
feudal domain.

Hualpa, a feathered serpent, is leader and spokescreature of
the Awakened forces responsible for creating Amazonia. It is
believed to be currently lairing in the Yucatan.

Lofwyr, a western dragon, bought a controlling interest in
Saeder-Krupp Heavy Industries with a massive lump of gold that
had been part of its hoard. From that time, Lofwyr has pursued a
program of corporate acquisition, so that its diversified holdings are
now a major economic force. The full extent of this dragon's
financial empire is unknown, as information on its assets is carefully
guarded. It is believed to be currently lairing in Tir Taimgire.

Lung, an eastem dragon, was involved in several Tong wars in
the decades following the Awakening, sponsoring factions with
monetary and magical support. Its current whereabouts are un-
known.

Ryumyo, an eastem dragon, became the first dragon sighted by
humans on December 24, 201 1, in the vicinity of Mount Fuji. After
two further confirmed sightings at Ise and Kyoto, it disappeared.

Sirrurg, a western dragon, is believed to be responsible for the
loss of EuroAir Flight 329 in 2041. It has been identified in several
attacks against corporate and government holdings in Europe and
may have participated in the coup establishing Amazonia. Its
present whereabouts are unknown.

 

SHADOWRUN 223
setae

ELEMENTAL SPIRITS

Anima hermetica
Identification: Elemental spirits are embodiments of the classical
elements. Each type’s appearance is peculiar to its element, with
the size of its manifestation almost always indicative of its power.
Habitat: Wherever conjured, which is easiest near a concentration
of its element.

Commentary: Elemental spirits are the forces of the magical
elements (fire, water, air, and earth) engendered into seemingly
self-aware entities. They exist primarily in astral space.

Each type of elemental has special powers and weaknesses.
Each is subject to annihilation by contact with an opposing elemen-
tal of equal or greater power, during which the stronger elemental
is weakened by the power of the other as well. Fire opposes water,
and air opposes earth. All elementals can manifest physically.

Air Spirit

Appearance: An air spirit appears as a swirling, smoky shape
of vaguely humanoid form.

Powers: Engulf, Manifest Form, Movement, Noxious Breath,
Psychokinesis

Weaknesses: An air spirit may be confined by airtight seals in
containers of remarkably small size; Vulnerability (Earth).

Earth Spirit

Appearance: An Earth spirit appears as a chunky, humanoid
shape of earth and/or rock.

Powers: Engulf, Manifest Form, Movement

Weaknesses: Vulnerability (Air)

Fire Spirit

Appearance: A fire spirit appears as a reddish-orange, lizard-
like creature sheathed in an aura of flames.

Powers: Engulf, Fire Aura, Fire Projection (always sustained
without causing Drain), Guard, Manifestation

Weaknesses: Vulnerability (Water)

Water Spirit

Appearance: A water spirit appears as a mass of murky water
of indefinite, ever-shifting shape.

Powers: Engulf, Manifestation, Movement

Weaknesses: Vulnerability (Fire)

EYEKILLERS

Bubovermis fulminis
Identification: The typical eyekiller’s overall length is 7 meters, its
height at the shoulder is 2.5 meters, and its weight is 200 kilograms.
An eyekiller’s body tapers from its large head to its thick tail. Its eyes
are enormous. The head is covered in contour feathers that form a
sound-conducting pattern that aid the creature in hunting, resem-
bling a feature known in owls. The feathers are hairier below the
shoulders and become a furry pelt over the limbs and snake-like
body. The eyekiller’s feathers are commonly gray or brown. The
single pair of limbs end in feet with four clawed digits. The skull is
beaked.
Habitat: Deserts and chaparral

Magic Capability: Innate

 

Habits: Nocturnal. The eyekiller feeds on many species. It prefers
hunting to scavenging. The female nests in burrows dug into the
ground, often near piles of stone that the creature constructs itself.
Eyekillers mate for life and hunt in pairs. Its life expectancy is ten
years in captivity, seven years in the wild. Its breeding season is in
mid-spring.

Young: The female eyekiller lays eggs in pairs. The young emerge
from the burrow three weeks after hatching.

Range: Western North America

Commentary: The eyekiller generates an electrical impulse strong
enough to stun a strong man or cause cardiac arrest in a weak or
sickly individual.

Powers: Electrical Projection, Enhanced Senses (Low-Light Vision;
Amplified Hearing)

GHOSTS

Larva valida
Identification: The existence of ghosts has been proven beyond
any doubt since the second decade of this century. Though hauntings
are extremely rare, and debate rages about the survival of con-
sciousness after death, haunting phenomena cannot be denied.

In every case, a ghost is an image of a dead human or
metahuman. Individuals who die unexpectedly, yet are aware of
their deaths, may become ghosts. Someone who dies under
overwhelming psychic pressure, such as an undischarged obliga-
tion or unfulfilled need, may also become a ghost.

There are two known classes of ghost: apparitions and specters.

Habitat: Apparitions generally haunt either the place where the
individual died or his former earthly home. Specters can appear
wherever they wish, but most haunt a specific place or attach
themselves to an individual or a family. Specters are often hostile,
causing poltergeist phenomena that can injure or even kill, but
some act as protective spirits that watch over family members or
descendants.
Habits: Apparitions appear only as illusions. They are almost always
visible, usually audible, and may affect other senses with ghostly
touches, cold chills, faint odors, and so on. They may frighten the
onlooker, but apparently cannot cause physical harm or any other
lasting effect on reality. They are usually generated upon the death
of someone with an overpowering need to communicate some
information to the living world.

Apparitions are frequently associated with violent death. Their
behavior tends to be repetitious of the actions that led up to the
death of the ghost’s once-living counterpart.

Specters are more independent in actions than apparitions.
They can affect the physical plane, and most display a personality—
a strong argument that they are the surviving spirits of deceased
persons—but others show little individuality at all. A specter’s true
form is that of the deceased, but it can usually assume any
appearance desired. Hostile specters seem to delight in assuming
grotesque, frightening shapes.

Specters may, like apparitions, be motivated by a desire to
communicate with the living. On the other hand, they may also
have a more concrete motivation, such as seeking revenge for
murder or some other injustice, protecting their surviving family, or
satisfying other psychological motivations of the deceased.
Range: Worldwide

 

224 SHADOWRUN
  
CRITTERS

 

Commentary: Some schools of thought maintain that a ghost has
the actual consciousness, or even the “soul,” of the deceased.
According to these theories, a ghost refuses to acknowledge its
own death, and the spirit cannot rest until exorcised by a magician
(using conjuring), or until some set of conditions is fulfilled.

A less mystical theory maintains that a ghost is an illusion
created by the mind of the deceased, but that it does not actually
partake of his or consciousness. The psychic pressure at the time of
death forms the ghost from magical energy and programs it with its
motivations. The strength of this mana-manipulation determines
the power and behavior of the ghost.

Though ghostly evidence is not admitted in a court of law, a

detective-mage tracked down a serial killer in Charleston, South
Carolina, in 2039 after studying an apparition of one of the killer's
victims. The ghost’s actions revealed sources of evidence that led
to the murderer's arrest and conviction.
Specter Powers: Fear, Manifestation, Psychokinesis. Incidents in-
volving Compulsion (to repeat acts of the deceased), Noxious
Breath, and Paralyzing Touch have been reported, but remain
unverified.

GHOULS

Manesphagus horridus
Identification: Ghouls commonly stand 1.7 meters tall and weigh
78 kilograms. They are a goblinized form of human or metahuman.
The change results in a rough, scabrous hide and the loss of all body
hair. Skin coloration varies from dead-white to ashen gray, depend-
ing on the ghoul’s original ethnic group. The fingers of a ghoul’s
hand elongate and its nails harden into claws. Its skull has slightly
enlarged jaws that contain 28 teeth. These are modified to a
consistent jagged shape. The females have two mammae.
Similar Species: Despite the ghoul’s preference for human flesh,
this creature is obviously different from the wendigo (p. 232).
Habitat: Crypts, abandoned properties near graveyards, and densely
populated slums
Magic Capability: Normally innate, but some individuals are
magically active.
Habits: Noctumal. A ghoul feeds on dead animals, usually humans.
Its diet and sanitary habits often result in a nauseating odor that
emanates from the creature’s pores. If no suitable building is
available, the ghoul will often dig its own burrow. Though usually
found in packs of 6 to 20, some ghouls wander alone. Such
specimens tend to be extremely aggressive and have greater-than-
average physical characteristics. A ghoul’s life expectancy is similar
to its subspecies of origin. Its breeding season is unrestricted.
Young: One (rare)
Economic Value: Most governments offer a bounty on ghouls.
Many jurisdictions also make any commerce with or aid to a ghoul
punishable by fine, imprisonment, re-education, or even death.
Range: Worldwide
Commentary: Many ghouls, though suffering from goblinization
trauma and possibly loss of mental capacity, remain thinking
creatures capable of using whatever technology they can acquire.
City-dwelling ghouls often mask their odor with perfumes.
Powers: Enhanced Senses (Smell, Hearing)
Weaknesses: Allergy (Sunlight, Moderate); Reduced Senses (Blind
or nearly so)

 

 

 

 

SHADOWRUN 225
SURE A)

GRIFFIN

Alatusleo aquila
Identification: The griffin’s head and body are 3 meters long. It
stands 1.6 meters tall at the shoulders, its tail is 1.3 meters long, and
it has a wingspan of 7 meters. It weighs 150 kilograms. The griffin
is a large, winged quadruped. Most griffins have golden-brown
feathers on their wings and foreparts, with lightly furred hindparts,
though some varieties have white-feathered heads and necks. The
sharply hooked beak is bright yellow or occasionally bright red. The
forelimbs are scaled and end in four toes, each equipped with a
sharp black talon. The skull is beaked. There are no mammae.
Similar Species: The Asian griffin (Alatusleo serpens) differs prima-
rily in the head and neck, which are smooth-skinned or scaled. The
Asian griffin also has a distinctive series of membrane-connected
spines running along the back of its neck. The opinicus, or false
griffin (Opinicus falciform), is quite similar to the common griffin,
except that it has no wings. It also lacks the large, tufted external
ears of the common griffin.
Habitat: Mountains, usually near steppes or open plains
Habits: Griffins are active in daylight, mostly near dawn and dusk.
Their favorite food is horse meat, though cattle and other livestock
are regularly taken. They nest in mountain clefts or on pinnacles. A
griffin’s hunting territory is more than 100 kilometers in diameter.
The longest-surviving specimen in captivity is at least 30 years old.
Its life expectancy in the wild is unknown. Its breeding season is
early summer.
Young: The female griffin lays one to four eggs, only one of which
is likely to hatch. The parents feed the newly hatched in the nest
until about two months after the youngs'’ first flight, which is usually
about four months after hatching.

226 SHADOWRUN

 

Economic Value: In areas where griffins become so plentiful that
they prove a serious threat to livestock, governments sometimes
offer a bounty on them. These governments usually require that the
hunter produce the beak as proof of the kill. There is a thriving
market—open in some countries, black market in others—in griffin
feathers and hides.

Range: Northem hemisphere

Commentary: Like most large, flying Awakened creatures, the
griffin is believed to use magic to counter its mass.

HARPY

Harpyia gregaria
Identification: The harpy stands only 1.2 meters tall, has a tail 1 meter
long, and weighs about 560 kilograms. It is a flying mammal rather
than a bird-human mixture, with fur and bat-like wings, unlike its
namesake in Greek mythology. Its head is curiously shaped, with an
expression resembling a human face distorted with rage. Its color
ranges from light brown to almost black. Its skull has 28 teeth. All
specimens of harpy encountered to date have been female, with two
mammae.
Similar Species: The harpy is almost certainly an Awakened bat-
form rather than a metahuman species, though some debate
continues on this point. Small specimens have been mistaken for
the giant vampire bat (Desmodus giganteus) of South America (not
included in this selection) and the rare “flying wolf” (Pteropus
carnivorus) of southeast Asia (not included in this selection).
Habitat: The harpy prefers elevated sites for nesting, but is otherwise
unrestricted.
Habits: Active by day, the harpy feeds on small birds and mammals,
but prefers carrion when available. It nests near favorite food



sources such as garbage dumps, and ranges up to fifty kilometers
from its nest. Harpies aggregate in communities of up to 100
individuals. A harpy may live 20 years in captivity, but only 5 to 10
years in the wild. Breeding season is unrestricted, but details on the
harpy’s mating habits are lacking.

Young: The harpy mother lays one to two dozen soft-shelled eggs,
which hatch in 2 to 5 days. The young remain in the nest for 12 to
14 months of maturation, at first suckling the mother and then
eating scraps of food brought by her.

Economic Value: Governments frequently offer a small bounty on
these vermin.

Range: Worldwide

Commentary: The greatest mystery about harpies is how they
breed, as no males of the species have ever been sighted.
Powers: Pestilence

KRAKEN

Architeuthis megagiganteus
Identification: The combined head and body length of the kraken
averages 25 meters. The kraken has a hydrodynamically streamlined
body and ten ordinary and two elongated tentacles, the latter
widening at the ends to form oval pads. The length of the ordinary
tentacles is 30 meters and the elongated tentacles 40 meters; the
creature’s total weight is estimated at more than 30 tons. The creature
has some limited color-changing ability, but is basically white with
dark blue or brown mottling on its dorsal surfaces. The skull is
composed of calcium carbonate and has a homy central beak.
Similar Species: The kraken is frequently mistaken for the common
giant squid (Architeuthis princeps).
Habitat: Pelagic ocean
Habits: The kraken is drawn to the lights of ships and ocean
platforms, despite an aversion to sunlight that prevents it from
appearing on the surface other than at night. It is involved in a
predator-prey relationship with beaked whales, in which each
seems to be the favorite food of the other. No specimen of kraken
has ever been held captive.
Young: Unknown
Economic Value: Sony Biotech and other biotechnical corporations
have offered bounties for intact specimens with undamaged skins.
Range: Worldwide

LESHY

Incola silvestris
Identification: The average leshy’s height is 1.5 meters. Its tail is . 1
meter long, and it weighs 60 kilograms. Leshy are humanoid,
though their habit of wearing garments of leaves and moss often
makes them appear half vegetable. Their skin is dark and rough,
with sparse body hair that is often green-tinged by a harmless algae.
The skull has 24 teeth. The female leshy has two mammae.
Habitat: Forests
Magic Capability: A significantly higher proportion of the leshy
population is more magically active than most other metahumanoid
species. Leshy magicians are usually shamans. They seem to have
additional advantages with forest spirits (+1 die for leshy dealing
with forest spirits).
Habits: Capable of activity at all hours, leshy are most active during
the early and late portions of the day. They are good climbers and

 

 

leapers, often taking to the trees to avoid predators or pursuit.
Leshy are vegetarians, feeding on fruits and vegetables native to
the forest. They nest in hollow trees, in natural or modified windfalls,
and in abandoned shelters or buildings. They range up to five
kilometers from their nests. The basic social units are small family
groups that maintain cordial, if distant, relations with other families
whose range abuts theirs. Isolated individuals are quite common.
Breeding season is unrestricted.

Young: One

Range: Worldwide

Commentary: Leshy are exceedingly territorial. Their familiarity
with their home range enables them to move through it with almost
supernatural speed. They resent intrusions into their range, and set
traps to impede anyone passing through. When aroused to anger,
they construct deadfalls, spiked pits, and torsion-powered impale-
ment devices, which encourage trespassers to seek alternate
routes.

Powers: Confusion

MERROW

Merhomo marina
Identification: A merrow is 3 meters tall and weighs 500 kilograms.
Its forelimbs are long and end in two three-fingered hands with
opposable thumbs. Rudimentary hind limbs mark the junction of the
long, tapering torso and the slender but strong tail. A long mane
covers the neck, and a series of extended spinal vertebrae run the
length of the torso. The rear half of the body is armored by dermal
bone, but the tail remains remarkably flexible. The body coloration is
light and usually has a greenish tinge, except for the dermal bone’s
darker emerald or deep blue-green. The merrow’s ears are external
and elongated to points. It has red eyes and a short-snouted skull
containing 36 teeth. The females have two mammae.
Similar Species: Various pinnipeds (seals and sea lions) are com-
monly mistaken for this elusive creature.
Habitat: Coastal waters
Magic Capability: This is normally innate, but evidence of magically
active individuals indicates that merrow are a sentient species.
Habits: Merrow congregate in polygamous family groups and asso-
ciations. They feed on fish and mollusks, with a preference for squid.
A merrow swims with an undulating motion, using its limbs for fine
directional control, and can achieve remarkably high speeds. They
breathe air, but have been observed to stay submerged for prolonged
periods, leading to speculation that they possess innate magical
ability to extract oxygen from water. Their breeding season is
unrestricted.
Young: One or two
Economic Value: Merrow are responsible for damage to commer-
cial fishing operations.
Range: Worldwide
Commentary: Paranaturalists argue whether the merrow can be
considered sapient. The creature has been observed using tools such
as nets of seaweed and spears, and using digging and prying tools to
collect and open mollusks. There are also unsubstantiated reports of
merrow using manufactured items. Indeed, paranaturalist Meridith
Perkins, a noted advocate of classifying the species as sapient,
maintains that she has observed members of one community consis-
tently gut and clean prey with knives of high-density plastic.

 

SHADOWRUN 227


NAGA

Custos serpens
Identification: The nagais 10 meters long and weighs 300 kilograms.
It has the form of a great serpent, but with an enlarged head
containing 28 teeth. Coloration is highly variable, but is almost always
a multicolored pattern that fades toward the pale underbelly.
Similar Species: Without a good view of the head, it is easy to
mistake a naga for an anaconda or a python.
Habitat: Tropical forests
Magical Capability: Innate, with some evidence of spellcasting
ability
Habits: The naga becomes inactive in periods of extreme heat or
prolonged cold. It eats small mammals, and dens in rocky crevices
or human-built structures. Though normally solitary, naga may be
found in groups of up to two dozen, especially in colder climes
during periods of low activity and in all climates during the mating
season. The longest-lived naga specimen in captivity is at least 32
years old. Breeding occurs in early spring.
Young: Three to five young are born live, and they immediately
leave the mother’s protection.
Economic Value: Young naga can be trained to accept human
handlers, thus allowing their strong territorial instincts to be used in
security details.
Range: The naga’s original range was sub-Saharan Africa, southern
Asia, and Indonesia. Transport by humans has distributed them in
tropical zones worldwide.
Commentary: The naga is more intelligent than other reptiles. The
creature can learn various behaviors ranging from verbal and
somatic cues to sophisticated activities in very short periods of
time. Its spellcasting ability strongly argues that the naga should be
rated as sentient. The Committee for the Recognition of Awakened
Intelligence has a petition seeking international recognition of the
naga as asapient life form pending before the United Nations. It also
calls for sanctions against nations and corporations that employ
nagas, on the grounds of involuntary servitude.
Powers: Guard, Magical Guard, Venom

NATURE SPIRITS

Anima naturalis
Identification: Nature spirits rarely appear in any fixed form. When
they do manifest, it is often in a form that reflects their home terrain.
If conjured by a shaman of great power, these spirits may appear in
ashape somewhat similar to that of their summoner, but composed
of the matter of their home terrain.

The Spirits of Man are the major exception to this rule, as they
usually assume humanoid form. The ancient legends of “brownies”
are probably memories of these spirits’ manifestations.

Magic Capability: Innate

Habitat: Nature spirits can only exist in their home terrain. They
cannot be summoned anywhere else, nor will they obey orders that
send them from home. Thus, a sea spirit will not move onto land,
a prairie spirit will not enter a forest, and so on.

Commentary: Nature spirits are the embodied forces of nature and
of place, and the spirits of shamanic tradition. There are four classes
of nature spirit: Spirits of the Land (forest, mountain, desert, prairie),
Spirits of the Waters (sea, lake, river, swamp), Spirits of the Winds
(storm, mist), and Spirits of Man (city, field, hearth).

 

 

City Spirit

Powers: Accident, Alienation, Concealment, Confusion, Fear,
Guard, Search

Appearance: Varies widely. City spirits usually appear as small
pieces of litter or amorphous masses of garbage. There is, however,
a documented case of a spirit in San Francisco that appeared in the
form of a cable car, and a shaman in Seattle recently claimed that he
conjured a spirit that took the form of a 1947 Hudson automobile.

Desert Spirit
Powers: Concealment, Guard, Movement, Search
Appearance: Desert spirits appear initially in the form of small
dust devils that, if ordered to attack, grow into raging sandstorms.

Held Spirit

Powers: Accident, Concealment, Guard, Search

Special Power: Field spirits can improve the fertility of crops and
livestock. Conversely, they can also damage crop or ranch yield.

Appearance: Field spirits take the form of miniature farmhands
dressed in overalls, bandanas, and so on. Reports of field spirits
wearing chaps, ten-gallon hats, and elaborate cowboy boots in the
North American Southwest remain unverified at this time.

Forest Spirit
Powers: Accident, Concealment, Confusion, Fear, Guard
Appearance: Forest spirits rarely manifest visibly. When they
do, they appear as deeper pools of shadow among the trees. If a
shaman orders them to take a more solid shape, they become
vaguely humanoid trees, capable of movement, with great, knobby,
branch-like limbs.

Hearth Spirit

Powers: Accident, Alienation, Concealment, Confusion, Guard,
Search

Appearance: Hearth spirits often resemble small, bearded
humanoids wearing antique clothing.

Lake Spirit
Powers: Accident, Engulf, Fear, Guard, Movement, Search
Appearance: Lake spirits usually appear as an area of ripples
upon the water. If the shaman conjures them into more solid form,
they will appear as humanoids dripping with moss and weed, rising
from the water.

Mist Spirit

Powers: Accident, Concealment, Confusion, Guard, Move-
ment

Appearance: Mist spirits have no material form, appearing
only as swirling clouds of fog.

Mountain Spirit
Powers: Accident, Concealment, Guard, Movement, Search
Appearance: Mountain spirits rarely have physical manifesta-
tions. Their arrival is marked by an utter stillness and an oppressive,
invisible presence. If forced into visibility, the mountain spirit
becomes a craggy humanoid of apparently living rock, which
despite its small size, has an aura of enormous mass.

 

228 SHADOWRUN
 

Prairie Spirit

Powers: Accident, Alienation, Concealment, Guard, Move-
ment, Search

Appearance: Prairie spirits typically appear as erratically mov-
ing tumbleweeds or small dust devils. Reports of miniature riders
resembling nomadic human types such as Mongols and Amerindians
are under investigation.

River Spirit

Powers: Accident, Concealment, Engulf, Fear, Guard, Move-
ment, Search

Appearance: River spirits usually appear as small whirlpools,
but under constraint, they may appear as small, frog-like, weed-
draped humanoids.

Sea Spirit

Powers: Accident, Alienation, Concealment, Confusion, En-
gulf, Fear, Guard, Movement, Search

Appearance: Sea spirits usually appear as anomalous surfaces
on the water: choppy waves in a calm sea and tranquil patches in
a choppy sea. If forced to take on a more solid form, they resemble
merfolk, mythical creatures with humanoid upper bodies and hind
bodies of fish.

Storm Spirit

Powers: Concealment, Confusion, Electrical Projection, Fear

Appearance: Storm spirits initially manifest as cold, damp
presences. When conjured with strength, they appear as roiling
thunderclouds or whirlwinds. Undocumented manifestations as an
eagle in the western portion of North America and a red-bearded
giant in a goat-drawn chariot in northern Europe have also been
reported. (Accounts of winged humanoids with bowling balls can
be safely discounted.)

Swamp Spirit

Powers: Accident, Binding, Concealment, Confusion, Engulf,
Fear, Guard, Movement, Search

Appearance: A swamp spirit typically manifests as a flickering
ball of light, and they are believed to be the source of the will-o'-
the-wisp legends. Magicians have occasionally reported swamp
spirits manifesting as moss-hung trees or rotting masses of vegeta-
tion that might only be called humanoid out of charity.

PHOENIX

Phoenix aureus
Identification: With a wingspan of 4 meters, a height of 1.3 meters,
a tail 2 meters long, and weighing 20 kilograms, the phoenix is a
large bird. It has strong, graceful wings and long, flowing tail
feathers. Its crested head has golden plumage. Its body feathers are
iridescent red and shimmering purple, and its tail is a glittering array
of azure shades. The skull has a sharply hooked beak.
Similar Species: The phoenix is occasionally confused with speci-
mens of thunderbirds that have long, colorful tails.
Habitat: Open woodlands
Magic Capability: Innate
Habits: The phoenix is a diurnal creature that feeds on small
mammals and birds. It nests on the ground in rocky areas, and will


 

SHADOWRUN 229
CRITTERS

defend its nest fiercely. The creature can live up to 20 years in
captivity. Its breeding season is in early spring.

Young: The phoenix lays one or two eggs, which hatch in three
weeks. Hatchlings remain in the nest to be fed by both parents until
fledged. After the young depart, the parent birds immolate the nest.
Economic Value: Phoenix feathers are prized in many parts of the
world. The editors of the Paterson Field Guide Series urge purchasers
to verify that feathers were obtained from molt rather than slaughter.
Range: Eastern Asia and North Africa

Powers: Flame Aura

SASQUATCH

Pesvastus pilosis
Identification: The sasquatch stands 2.9 meters and weighs 110
kilograms. It is a dark-skinned, upright biped with large feet. Its
black or dark brown body hair is double-layered, though the hair
may be silver-tipped, especially on the upper back and head of
older individuals. The sasquatch can mimic a variety of sounds,
including the hunting calls of other creatures. Its ears are small,
often disappearing under the head hair, but its nose is prominent
and flared. The sasquatch skull has 28 teeth and the female has 2
mammae.
Similar Species: The sasquatch is often confused by the uninitiated
with the leshy (p. 227), though there is little resemblance save in
habits and habitat. More serious identification problems arise with
large, hairy specimens of ork and hairy trolls, who have done much
to malign the reputation of this gentle forest creature. Occasional
sightings of white-furred humanoids in the lower reaches of the
Himalayas and nearby mountain ranges have prompted
paranaturalists to posit an Asian form (Pesvastus asiaticus), com-
monly referred to as a yeti (not included in this selection).
Habitat: Forested regions
Magic Capabllity: Sasquatches are presumed to be magically
active, most likely as shamans.
Habits: The sasquatch is active at all times. Its way of life is similar
to that of the gorilla (believed now extinct in the wild). It is
vegetarian, peaceful, and curious. It fights only when attacked,
though it demonstrates elaborate threat behavior. The observer is
warned to be cautious, however, for sasquatches have been known
to interpret sudden movement on the part of a threatened indi-
vidual as an imminent attack. The creatures live in small family
groups, though individuals may range far from the group while
foraging. Sasquatches nest permanently in groves or caverns, but
sometimes prepare temporary nests in thickets when traveling ata
distance from the home nest. Life expectancy is believed to be
more than 40 years. The breeding season is unrestricted.
Young: One, occasionally two. Parental care continues for 24 to 30
months.
Range: Norther portions of North America
Commentary: The sasquatch was recognized by the United Nations
in 2042 as a sentient species, despite its lack of a material culture
and the inability of scientists to decipher its language. This decision
ended years of imprisonment and exhibition of sasquatch individu-
als. Development of the Perkins-Athapascan sign language has
allowed limited communication with sasquatches. Today, they can
be found colonizing forests in Awakened lands worldwide and
serving as sound effects technicians in the entertainment industry.

 

 

SHAPESHIFTER

Bestiaforma mutabilis
Identification: Variable. In animal form, a shapeshifter manifests as
a large, well-formed member of its species, often with dramatic
coloration. In human form, a shapeshifter is usually very attractive,
but with vestiges of its bestial nature. Viewing the shapeshifter in
astral space will reveal its identity, as its alternate form is always
visible there.
Habitat: The shapeshifter lives.in its animal form in the wild. In its
human form, it lives as a member of the community.
Magic Capability: Many are active, with potential innate in all
others.
Habits: Shapeshifters are capable of activity at all times, but many
forms prefer a nocturnal life. Despite many myths to the contrary,
shapeshifters are not locked into the cycles of the moon, though
many seem to prefer their animal form during the full moon. Itis also
a myth that they shed their skins in order to become human.
Shapeshifters are usually carnivorous, but show no difficulty main-
taining an omnivorous diet while in human form. They breed
according to the season of their animal form.
Young: Shapeshifters are born in animal form, in numbers typical for
the animal. Some of the litter may not be shapeshifters.
Range: Worldwide
Commentary: All shapeshifters display a severe allergic reaction to
silver. It is acommon misconception that shapeshifters are humans
that change into animals. That is not true: shapeshifters begin their
lives as animals, and remain animals that turn into humans. Their
personalities and points of view are unique.
Powers: Enhanced Physical Attributes in animal form, Regeneration
Weaknesses: Allergy (Silver, Severe), Vulnerability (Silver)

Common Shapeshifters

Bear
Origin: Northern hemisphere
Identifying Feature: Extensive body hair
Active Magic: Rare

Fox
Origin: Japan and China
Identifying Feature: Long tail
Active Magic: Common

Leopard
Origin: Africa
Identifying Feature: Enlarged canines
Active Magic: Common

Seal
Origin: Coastal waters worldwide
Identifying Feature: Webbed toes, possibly fingers
Active Magic: Common

Tiger
Origin: Asia
Identifying Feature: Reflective eyes
Active Magic: Rare

Wolf
Origin: Northern hemisphere
Identifying Feature: Hairy palms, eyebrows that meet in the

middle

Active Magic: Uncommon

 

230 SHADOWRUN
CRITTERS

THUNDERBIRD

Avesfulmen splendidus
Identification: The thunderbird’s head and body measure 3 meters,
its tail 1 meter, and its wingspan 10 meters. It weighs 100
kilograms. An eagle-like bird, its head, neck, and tail are usually
covered with white feathers, but in some specimens these areas are
darker. Its torso and the upper wing surfaces range from golden to
dark brown. The wing undersurfaces are cream-colored. The skull
has a sharply hooked beak.
Similar Species: The considerably larger roc (not included in this
section) is often confused with the thunderbird in aerial encounters
where nothing is present to give a perspective on size.
Habitat: Mountains
Magic Capability: Innate
Habits: The thunderbird is usually active during the day, but reports
also indicate nocturnal activity. Thunderbirds hunt terrestrial ani-
mals such as antelope and deer, as well as scavenging carrion. They
nest in sheltered spots near mountain peaks and may travel
hundreds of kilometers from their nest in search of prey. Their
breeding season is early summer.
Young: The female thunderbird lays one or two eggs, which hatch
in six weeks. Hatchlings remain in the nest for three to six weeks.
Range: Western hemisphere
Powers: Electrical Projection (With area effect)

UNICORN

Unicomis validus
Identification: The unicorn’s head and body are 3 meters long, and
its height at the shoulder is 1.4 meters. It weighs 370 kilograms. To
all appearances, a unicorn is a horse with a single, spiral horn. It has
a long, flowing mane and tail. Coloration is usually white, but all
typical horse colors and patterns have been observed. Its skull has
40 teeth, and females have 4 mammae.
Similar Species: Many other ungulates have produced unicornate
paraspecies. Most common of these are the red deer unicom of
Europe, the goat unicorn of Africa and Asia Minor, and the rare
water buffalo unicorn of China and southeast Asia, which often has
dermal armor and may be the basis of the legendary chi'lin and kirin
(not included in this selection).
Habitat: Grasslands
Magic Capability: Innate
Habits: Unicorns are active by day, feed on grasses, and keep
harems (if male) or stud groups (if female) of horses. The unicorn
may range far afield from its herd for extended periods of time. They
live less than a year in captivity, but more than 25 years in the wild.
The breeding season is unrestricted.
Young: One, or twins in rare cases. Not all births are destined to
become unicorns. If a colt is to be unicornate, the horn emerges at
maturity (about two years), and continues to grow, ever more
slowly, throughout the creature's life.
Economic Value: Unicorn horns are prized in many parts of the
world for medicinal and magical preparations, many of dubious
value.
Range: Worldwide
Powers: Immunity (Pathogens), Magical Guard
Weaknesses: Allergy (Pollutants, Severe)

 

 

VAMPIRE

Sanguisuga europa
Identification: Vampires are externally identical to humans or
metahumans, though there is enlargement of the upper canines in
most individuals. Vampires are detectable biochemically by the
Harz-Greenbaum blood series, or virologically by testing for the
presence of the Human-Metahuman Vampiric Virus (HMHVV).

Vampires are not a true species, but rather they are individuals
of a human subspecies who have been infected with an agent that
causes the vampiric condition. The infection only seems to reach its
full virulence in a magic-rich environment, but there are indications
that both virus and vampires were present before the Awakening.
Similar Species: Other possibly related expressions of the HMHVV
retrovirus are the paraspecies of banshee (p. 221) and wendigo (p.
232).

Habitat: Vampires prey on sentient beings, and so are usually urban
dwellers.

Magic Capability: Latent. Active magic is much commoner in
humans infected with the virus than among the uninfected. It is
unknown whether this is due to side effects of the virus or
preferential selection of magic-capable individuals by its carriers.

Vampires absorb the life essence of their victims. With their
prolonged life span, they have the potential to become powerful
magicians. It seems likely that legends of vampiric powers are
based on the magical prowess of individual vampires.

Habits: The vampire consumes the blood of the living to survive,
but also must consume psychic energy along with the blood.
Range: Worldwide

Commentary: Though case histories are often vague, not all vam-
pires fit the stereotype of unrelenting bloodsucker. Many prefer
willing partners, and do not drain Essence from a subject more than
once. Only when a partner freely accepts the transition to the
vampiric life will such a vampire “kill.”

Other vampires revel in their role as hunters and killers. Such
individuals have a strong sadistic streak and seek out unwilling
victims. Initially, the vampire draws sustenance from the victim’s
terror. Then, if the early attacks have not killed the victim, the
vampire will enjoy taking the now-addicted subject's final Essence.
Such individuals may have been psychopaths before their transition
to vampirism, or it may be the shock of their death and rebirth as a
“hunting creature” that pushes them over the edge. These are the
monsters of the vampire horror stories made popular over the
years.

There have also been cases where a vampire has destroyed the
victim’s body after draining his or her Essence, and thereby pre-
vented a new vampire from taking up its new life.

Powers: Enhanced Physical Characteristics, Enhanced Senses (Hear-
ing and Smell), Essence Drain, Immunity (Age, Poison, Pathogens),
Infection, Mist Form, Regeneration, Thermographic Vision
Weaknesses: Allergy (Sunlight, Severe), Induced Dormancy (Lack
of air), Essence Loss, Vulnerability (Wood), and in some, a psy-
chologically based Allergy (Holy symbols, Severe)

Though many of the legendary weaknesses of vampires are not
genuine, they do have certain limitations. They do not need food or
drink other than blood, but neither can they comfortably ingest
anything else. Within a few minutes after eating or drinking, a

 

SHADOWRUN 231
CRITTERS

vampire will evidence obvious distress and will vomit within an
hour. Alcohol is particularly distasteful to them, as it causes nausea
and vomiting within minutes.

Vampires have less buoyancy than other humanoid beings (+3
to target numbers of all Skill or Attribute Tests when swimming,
trying to stay afloat, and so on). This is presumably the basis for their
legendary vulnerability to running water. A vampire can hop across
a stream with no difficulty, but if one falls into a lake, it will probably
go under, forcing dormancy.

WENDIGO

Anthrophagus pilosis
Identification: The wendigo’s height is 2.5 meters and its weight
is 130 kilograms. It is a white-furred, upright biped. The nails of its
hands are elongated and hardened into claw-like weapons. Many
paranaturalists believe that this creature is the result of the HMHVV
retrovirus in orks, though no specimens have been tested for
presence of the virus. Its skull has 28 teeth. The females have two
mammae.
Similar Species: Though the fur and physiognomy of the wendigo
are radically different from that of the sasquatch, the wendigo is
often mistaken for a sasquatch (p. 230), usually by persons not
native to the region of sighting.
Habitat: Forests
Magic Capability: Most are magically active
Habits: The wendigo is most active at night. It feeds on flesh, and
is believed to derive psychic sustenance from its victim. Typically,
it induces a victim to partake of a cannibalistic feast. This seems to
create a psychological dependence on such meat in the victim, who
begins to aid the wendigo in spreading its habits, thus creating a
coven or secret society of cannibals. The members of the coven are
unaware that they will ultimately be meals for the wendigo itself,
which seems to prefer the essence of such corrupted spirits. The
wendigo makes its lair in the abode of a previous victim. Its life
expectancy is unknown.
Young: Paranaturalists suspect that the wendigo breeds similarly to
the vampire, transmitting the HMHVV virus rather than procreat-
ing.
Range: Originally the northern portions of North America and Asia
as well as the transpolar regions. Recent reports indicate that it has
spread worldwide, leading paranaturalists to suspect that it can
maintain a mask spell in addition to its other powers.
Commentary: All known wendigos have been active shamanic
magicians. Though most carried fetishes of predatory totems such
as the shark or wolf, some had items of unidentified affiliations.

All civilized regions outlaw the wendigo, making it subject to
an automatic death penalty if convicted of anthropophageous
activity. Aiding and abetting a wendigo usually carries a similar
sentence. Many jurisdictions offer a bounty on the creature.
Powers: Influence, Enhanced Physical Attributes, Enhanced Senses
(Low-Light Vision and Visual Acuity; Hearing, Smell), Essence
Drain, Fear, Immunity (Age, Pathogens, Poisons), Infection, Regen-
eration
Weaknesses: Allergy (Sunlight, Severe), Essence Loss, Vulnerabil-
ity (Ferrous Metals)

 

CRITTER STATISTICS

The following numbers represent a typical specimen. Individuals
may vary, especially among sentient species. Physical and Mental
Attributes of an individual may be 50 percent higher than those of an
average specimen. A small individual will never have Attribute
Ratings less than half those of the average unless it is sick or injured.
Even in the largest and smallest specimens, Essence, reach, attack
type, run multiplier, and damage modifiers remain the same.

METAHUMAN VARIATION TABLE

2D6 Total Attribute Points
2D 4
34 2
5-7 —
8-9 +2
+4
12 +8

 

CRITTER STATISTICS TABLE KEY

B: Body. The first number is the rating. The second is any
“armor” for the critter, acting as composite ballistic and impact
armor. Any variations of this will be listed with Powers.

Q: Quickness. The first number is the rating. The second is the
multiplier for running.

S: Strength.

C: Charisma.

I: Intelligence. The first number is the critters basic rating, used
for puzzles and resisting some spells. The second number is its
Perception Rating, used to detect prey or enemies when its best
sense is working (sonar for bats, nose for dogs, and so forth).

W: Willpower.

E: Essence. If the number appears in parentheses, the critter
has 4 dual nature. If a capital A follows the number, the critter exists
primarily in astral space. Critters with variable Essence have a range
of numbers.

R: Reaction. Some critters’ Reaction Rating is a function of their
other Attributes, others have independent values. Critters whose
Reaction Ratings are marked with an asterisk receive 2D6 Initiative
dice. Those with two asterisks have 3D6 Initiative dice.

Attacks: This lists the Attack Code for nonintelligent critters or
the designation “humanoid” for those that can use weapons and
follow the normal combat rules for characters. This column also tells
which critters have extended reach.

 

232 SHADOWRUN
Sie ia a)

CRITTER STATISTICS TABLE

B .qQq

1 5x4
10/2 4x3
9/1 4x3
1 4x4
2 4x4
4 4x5
3 4x4
1
5

c I
1/5
2/4
2/4
2/4
2/4
2/3
2/4
2/4
3/3
2/4
2/3
2/3
2/4
1/4
2/2
3/4

Attacks

2L

9D, +1 Reach
6S, +1 Reach
3L, —1 Reach
4M, -1 Reach
3M, +1 Reach
6M

3L, -1 Reach
10D, +1 Reach
3L, —1 Reach
3L

6S, +1 Reach
9S

2L, —1 Reach
11D

4M

now

4x4
3x4
4x4
4x6
0 4x4

2 5x4

1 5x3

12/2 4x4

6 5x4

Note: Running multiplier on land is 2
Shark, Large 10/2 5x3 2/3
Shark, Typical 5/1 5x4 2/3
Tiger 8 6x4 3/4
Wolf 5 5x4 3/4

PARASPECIES
Name B Q Ss Cc I Ww E Attacks
Banshee 3 4x5 3 5 a 3 2D6 Humanoid
Powers: Enhanced Senses (Low-Light Vision; Hearing, Smell), Essence Drain, Fear, Immunity (Age, Pathogens, Toxins),
Mist Form, Regeneration
Weaknesses: Allergy (Sunlight, Severe), Essence Loss, Vulnerability (Wood, Silver)
Barghest 7 6x4 5 — 3/6 2 (6)
Powers: Fear, Paralyzing Howl, Enhanced Senses (Sonar)
Basilisk 4/2 2x3 7 — 1/3 (6)
Powers: Petrifying Gaze
Weaknesses: Allergy (Own Gaze, Extreme)
Cockatrice 3 5x3 4 — 2/3 (6)
Powers: Paralyzing Touch, Invulnerability (Own Touch)
Eyekiller 7 4x3 7 — 3/4 3 (6) 4 6S
Powers: Electrical Projection, Enhanced Senses (Low-Light Vision, Amplified Hearing)
Ghost — _ — 2 2 5 6A 5 Special
Powers: Fear, Manifestation, Psychokinesis, [some show: Compulsion, Noxious Breath, Paralyzing Touch]
Ghoul 7 5x4 6 1 4 5 (5) 4 Humanoid
Powers: Enhanced Senses (Smell, Hearing)
Weaknesses: Allergy (Sunlight, Moderate), Reduced Senses (Blind)
Griffin 9 7x2 9 — 3/5 4
Note: Movement multiplier is 5 while flying
Harpy 4 8x2 4 4M
Note: Movement multiplier is 6 while flying

Kraken 12/3 Sxs 12D, +2 Reach
Powers: Pestilence


 

SHADOWRUN 233
CRITTERS

CRITTER STATISTICS TABLE (continued)
Name Q S c I w E Attacks
Leshy 4x4 3 4 3 3 (8) Humanoid
Powers: Confusion

Merrow 5 7x4 3 3 (6) Humanoid

Naga 5/1 2x3 3 3 4 (8) 4 5M2, —1 Reach
Powers: Guard, Magical Guard, Venom

Phoenix 3 5x4 (6) 4M
Powers: Flame Aura

Sasquatch 8 3x4 7 3 Z (6) 4 Humanoid, +1 Reach

Shapeshifter (Human) 5 4x5 5 5 3 (8) >" Humanoid
Shapeshifter (Animal) A +2(A+1)x(A+1)A+2 5 3 (8) 5* (A + 1)(A)
Note: When shapeshifter is in animal form, refer to the animal attributes, designated A, and add the modifiers.
Powers: Enhanced Physical Attributes in animal form, Regeneration
Weaknesses: Allergy (Silver, Severe), Vulnerability (Silver)

Thunderbird 4 7x2 8 — 2/4
Note: Movement multiplier is 5 while flying
Powers: Electrical Projection (area effect)

Unicom 8 5x6 8
Powers: Immunity (Pathogens), Magical Guard
Weaknesses: Allergy (Pollutants, Severe)

Vampire c Cx5 C+E Cc Cc Cc 2D6 c Humanoid
Note: A vampire was originally a character, and it retains most of the character's Attributes, designated C. Its Strength is the
character's Strength plus the vampire’s Essence.
Powers: Enhanced Physical Attributes, Enhanced Senses (Hearing, Smell), Essence Drain, Immunity (Age, Pathogens,

Poison), Infection, Mist Form, Regeneration, Thermographic Vision
Weaknesses: Allergy (Sunlight, Severe), Induced Dormancy (Lack of air), Essence Loss, Vulnerability (Wood)
Wendigo 6 2x5 5 4 3 3 2D6 4 Humanoid
Powers: Enhanced Physical Attributes, Enhanced Senses (Low-Light Vision, Visual Acuity, Hearing, Smell), Essence Drain,
Fear, Immunity (Age, Pathogens, Poison) Infection, Influence, Regeneration
Weaknesses: Allergy (Sunlight, Severe), Essence Loss, Vulnerability (Ferrous Metals)

DRACOFORMS
Powers: Enhanced Senses (Wide-Band Hearing, Low-Light Vision, Thermal Sense), Hardened Armor [Some show: Animal
Control (Reptiles), Influence, Flame Projection, Noxious Breath, Venom]

Feathered Serpent 12/8 6x2 30 4 4 8 (2D6) r 12D, +2 Reach
Note: Movement multiplier is 4 while flying

Eastern Dragon 14/8 8x3 35 8 (2D6) 6* 14D, +2 Reach
Wester Dragon 15/8 7x3 40 4 8 (2D6) a 14D, +2 Reach

Great Dragon +10/12 +3 +10 +5 12 16D, +3 Reach
Note: Estimates only; individuals vary widely

ELEMENTALS
B Q S c

F-2 (F+3)x4 F-3 F
Attacks: as Powers
Powers: Engulf, Manifestation, Movement, Noxious Breath, Psychokinesis
Weaknesses: Confinement, Vulnerability (Earth)

Earth F+4 (F-2)x2 F+4 F
Attacks: (F)S as Unarmed Combat (Reaction); +1 Reach
Powers: Engulf, Manifestation, Movement
Weaknesses: Vulnerability (Air)

 

234 SHADOWRUN
SURES a

CRITTER STATISTICS TABLE (continued)
Name B Q Ss Cc I Ww E
Fire F+1 (F+2)x3 F-2 F F F (FA
Attacks: (F)M as Ranged Combat (Reaction); Range = Force x 2 meters
Powers: Engulf, Flame Aura, Flame Projection, Guard, Manifestation, Movement
Weaknesses: Vulnerability (Water)

Water F+2 Fx2 F (FA
Attacks: (F)S Stun as Unarmed Combat (Force)
Powers: Engulf, Manifestation, Movement
Weaknesses: Vulnerability (Fire)

NATURE SPIRITS

Type B Q S E
—Of Man F+1 (F+2)x3 F-2 (FA
City Spirit

Powers: Accident, Alienation, Concealment, Confusion, Fear, Guard, Search
Hearth Spirit

Powers: Accident, Alienation, Concealment, Confusion, Guard, Search
Field Spirit

Powers: Accident, Concealment, Guard, Search

—Of the Land F+4 (F—2)x2 F+4
Desert Spirit
Powers: Concealment, Guard, Movement, Search
Forest Spirit
Powers: Accident, Concealment, Confusion, Fear, Guard
Mountain Spirit
Powers: Accident, Concealment, Guard, Movement, Search
Prairie Spirit
Powers: Accident, Alienation, Concealment, Guard, Movement, Search

—Of the Sky F-2 (F+3)x4 F-3 F F F
Mist Spirit
Powers: Accident, Concealment, Confusion, Guard, Movement
Storm Spirit
Powers: Concealment, Confusion, Electrical Projection, Fear
—Of the Waters F+2 Fx2 F F
Lake Spirit
Powers: Accident, Engulf, Fear, Guard, Movement, Search
River Spirit
Powers: Accident, Concealment, Engulf, Fear, Guard, Movement, Search
Sea Spirit
Powers: Accident, Alienation, Concealment, Confusion, Engulf, Fear, Guard, Movement, Search
Swamp Spirit
Powers: Accident, Binding, Concealment, Confusion, Engulf, Fear, Guard, Movement, Search

AVERAGE METAHUMANS
Q

 

SHADOWRUN 235
CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 

 

When you cut someone nowadays, you don’t know whether
they’re going to bleed or leak hydraulic fluid.
—Evil Eye, Tiger gang member

| his section provides a fine selection of items from various Grid-catalogs, fixer shops,
| and talismonger haunts of 2053. All prices are MSRP (manufacturer's suggested
| retail price). Actual street price will vary. (See Availability in Behind the Scenes,
— p. 184.)

PERSONAL WEAPONS

These weapons are the basic hand-to-hand fighting implements still in use
today. This list does not include impromptu weapons created from material on
hand.

 

Katana: The two-handed “samurai” sword favored by those with a taste for the
romantic and old-fashioned. 1,000¥

Knife: A basic all-purpose street cutter. 30¥

Monofilament Whip: A near-monomolecular cord, it is swung with a weight at the
end for control. It is extremely sharp and will cut through just about anything.
(See Monofilament Whip rules on p. 103.) 3,000¥

Polearm: An unlikely and rare weapon, these days. It is included to give an idea of
weapon types. 500¥

Staff: This is popular with magicians, for that traditional look. 50¥

Stun Baton: The standard riot-control weapon, this weighted stick delivers an
electrical charge. (See Shock Weapons, p. 103.) 750¥

Sword: This refers to any of a variety of ceremonial styles and also covers some of
the longer and more vicious knives. 500¥

 

236 SHADOWRUN


 

SHADOWRUN 237
IMPACT PROJECTILE WEAPONS

These weapons are man-powered, and may make use of
simple mechanical assistance for additional distance or speed.

Bow: This can be either a traditional longbow of fiberglass or wood
oramodern-compound and pulley bow. 100¥x STR. Min (plus
100¥/10 arrows)

Crossbow: These come in three grades. Lights are cocked by hand,
while the heavier models use a built-in, side-wheel gear to
assist re-cocking. 300¥ for light, 500¥ for medium, 750¥ for
heavy (plus 100¥/20 bolts)

Throwing Knife: Any of a variety of slim knives or spikes. 20¥

Shuriken: A multi-edged or spiked, airfoil throwing blade. 30¥

FIREARMS

Firearms are primarily slug-throwers. The principle has not
changed much over the years. Many weapons offer two versions,
for standard loads or for caseless ammunition, though the latter is
far more common in the 2050s. A weapon can either fire one form
of ammunition or the other, but not both interchangeably. Ammo
cost is the same. In either case, a digital ammunition counter is
standard. The readout usually appears on the rear sight, where the
user can see it when firing.

PISTOLS

Standard pistols are able to mount barrel- and top-mounting
firearm accessories only. Revolvers cannot use silencers or sound
suppressers. Hold-out pistols cannot mount any accessories.

  

 

Walther Palm Pistol Colt America L36

Streetline Special: This is acommon hold-out pistol found among the
lowest economic level of society. Made of composite materials,
it is small, lightweight, and extremely concealable. 100¥

Walther Palm Pistol: This European hold-out design packs one
large-caliber round in each of its over-under barrels. A select
switch allows the user to fire both barrels simultaneously (treat
as a Short Burst, p. 92). 200¥

Colt America L36: This light American design is popular among the
style-conscious because of its sleek profile, which also makes
it easy to conceal. 350¥

Beretta Model 101T: This slim-line light personal weapon is
favored by corporate personnel worldwide. 350¥

 

Fichetti Security 500: Designed for light security work, the Fichetti
500 accepts a full range of pistol accessories. Mint models
come with the standard 10-round clip, as well as an extended
22-round optional clip and a detachable shoulder stock. 400¥

 

Ares Predator: Considered by many the premier heavy pistol, the
Predator is a menacing weapon that is popular among merce-
naries and security services. 450¥

Browning Max-Power: This is the primary contender against the
Ares Predator as the toughest heavy pistol. 450¥

Ruger Super Warhawk: This heavy revolver accepts all standard
accessories except, of course, a silencer. 300¥

Remington Roomsweeper: The short-barreled Roomsweeper heavy
shotgun is popular with the urban fighter for its high take-down
capability and significant intimidation factor. (The weapon uses
heavy-pistol ranges, but Shotgun rules, see p. 95.) 300¥

Ares Viper: This pistol fires flechette ammunition (already factored
into its Damage Code). The slivergun has the range of a heavy
pistol even though it is really a light pistol. The Viper features
a built-in silencer. 600¥

SUBMACHINE GUNS (SMGS)

SMGs are able to accept one top mounting, one barrel mount-
ing, and one under-barrel mounting firearms accessory, with the
exception of grenade launchers. SMGs cannot use silencers, but can
use sound suppressers.

Uzi Ill: This is a worthy descendent of the famous Israeli Uzi. The
Fabrique Nationale model, officially manufactured for the
French government, is one of the more common street weap-
ons. It features an integral folding stock and laser sight (top
mount). The very similar Ingram Mk. 22 omits the laser sight.
600¥

Heckler & Koch HK227: This is the SMG of choice for many
corporate security, military police, and base security units
worldwide. The standard model boasts a retractable stock,
integral laser sights (under-barrel mount), and a gas-vent recoil
compensation system (barrel mount, Rating 2). The S variant,
popular with corp strike teams and special forces, substitutes
an integral silencer for the recoil system. 1,500¥ (1,200¥ for S
variant)

Ingram Valiant: Popular with merc units around the world, this is
the most common model of light machine gun. Models like the
Ares light machine gun and Ingram Valiant have a hip-brace

 

238 SHADOWRUN


recoil pad (Rating 1) and an ammunition bin slung over the
back or hip to feed belted ammo to the weapon. A gas-vent
recoil compensation system (barrel mount, Rating 2) is stan-
dard equipment on these popular models. 1,500¥

RIFLES

Rifles are able to mount one barrel-, one under-barrel-, and one
top-mounting firearm accessory. Some rifles come with rigid
shoulder stocks, and some with folding stocks. Neither affect recoil.
Shotguns cannot mount silencers or sound suppressers.

   

FN HAR: This assault rifle is common in Europe and increasingly
popular with corporate response teams and private security
forces specializing in high-threat areas. It comes with an
integral folding stock, laser sight (top mount), and gas-vent
recoil compensation system (barrel mount, Rating 2). 1,200¥

Soviet AK-97: Originally a Soviet weapon, this assault rifle is now
found worldwide. The SMG carbine form, with its integral
folding stock, is almost as common. Mounting a grenade
launcher on either model is extremely difficult, though the AK-
98 features an integral mini-grenade launcher (under-barrel
mount). 700¥ for AK-97, 800¥ for carbine, 2,500¥ for AK-98

Remington 750: Long and sleek, the 750 sport rifle and the 950, its
heavy-duty sister, have been the choice of hunters for nearly 50
years. Both use a smooth bolt-operated action of supreme
reliability. A top-mount image magnifying scope (Rating 1) is
standard with either model. Under-barrel mounting is not
available. 600¥ for 750, 800¥ for 950

Ranger Arms SM-3: The SM-3 is a must for those jobs when the first
shot has to count. Combined barrel-mount gas-vent recoil
compensator (Rating 2) and silencer, and imaging scope mag-
nification (top mount, Rating 3) with thermographic or low-light
circuits are standard equipment. Like most of its breed, it
disassembles completely and will fit into a standard briefcase
with no loss of accuracy. (Three Complex Actions required to
assemble/disassemble.) Ideal for the assassin on the go, but
does not stand up well to combat use. The number of tums this
rifle is carried and used as a combat weapon (outside of its
intended sniper role) equals the chance on a roll of 2D6 that the
weapon suffers a +2 target number modifier due to loss of
alignment of its precision and calibrated parts. (For example,
John uses his SM-3 to discourage his pursuers while making a

 

strategic retreat through a garbage-cluttered alley. His rifle gets
bumped around for 3 tums. If his player rolls a 3 on 2D6, John
must add +2 to all weapon target numbers.) 4,000¥

Enfield AS7: This assault shotgun provides massive firepower. It
has an integral laser sight (top mount) and is fitted with a 10-
shot clip or 50-shot drum (drum adds —3 to Concealability, +2
kg to weight). 1,000¥

Defiance T-250: A popular autoloading shotgun available in full
size and short barrel (use heavy-pistol ranges) versions. It has
no under-barrel mount. 500¥

 

Whitney-Morgan Caseless Machine Gun

TASER WEAPONS

Some police and security units favor these electroshock weap-
ons in low-threat environments. The standard model fires a dart that
trails a 10-meter-long wire. An electric charge surges down the
wire to incapacitate the target as long as the current flows. A variant
on these weapons fires darts that contain high-capacitance batter-
ies. The darts discharge on contact, stunning the target, virtually
paralyzing it. See Shock Weapons, p. 103, for rules.

Defiance Super Shock: The most popular taser weapon in service
with UCAS law enforcement agencies, the SS packs side-by-
side heavy darts. Standard issue pistols have integral low-light
imaging scopes (top mount). 1,000¥

HEAVY WEAPONS

Heavy weapons can generally mount one barrel, one under-
barrel, and one top-mounting accessory, as applicable. Missile and
rocket launchers do not use standard firearm accessories.

Machine Gun: These autofire weapons come in two grades, medium
and heavy. They normally use belt ammo feeds. Though usually
mounted on tripods, medium machine guns are occasionally
used on gyro-stabilized mounts as mobile infantry support
weapons. 2,500¥ for medium, 4,000¥ for heavy

Assault Cannon: This massive weapon fires shells equivalent to
explosive bullets, but without the inherent instability. The
shells also have limited armor-piercing capability, making the
weapon useful in a wide range of applications. It can use belted
ammo. 6,500¥

Missile /Rocket Launcher: The various missile and rocket launchers
of the previous century have given way to weapons emphasiz-
ing flexible delivery systems and eliminating the back-blast

 

SHADOWRUN 239
problems so common in early systems. The typical launcher is
reusable and breaks open to load up to four missiles. Its sighting
mechanism, shoulder brace, and exhaust tube are collapsible,
making the weapon a compact bundle when disassembled.
Heavier missiles and launchers exist, of course, but they are rare
in the shadows of the city streets. 8,000¥ for the launcher alone.
Anti-Vehicle Rockets/Missiles (AVR/AVM) pierce a vehicle’s
armor, and they do not explode if they miss. 2,000¥ for AVR,
5,000¥ for AVM

Anti-Personnel Rockets/Missiles (APR/APM) have high-ex-
plosive and fragmentation warheads. 1 ,000¥ for APR, 2,500¥ for
APM

High-Explosive Rockets/Missiles (HER/HEM) cause general
destruction. 1,500¥ for HER, 3,750¥ for HEM

FIREARM ACCESSORIES

Note that Concealability Rating adjustments on the following
accessories refer only to the installation of these accessories after
purchase. If the weapon description lists the accessory as “integral,”
no Concealability modifier is added. It also means the accessory
cannot be removed.

 

Bipods: Bipods are two-legged braces that extend downward from
the weapon, allowing the weapon to be fired low to the ground
with the user in a sitting or lying position. A bipod uses the
under-barrel mount, does not affect Concealability, and pro-
vides 2 points of recoil compensation. 400¥

Concealable Holster: Custom-fitted to the wearer, the holster can
be designed for wear over the hip, in the small of the back,
under the arm, on the forearm, or on the ankle. It adds +2 to
the Concealability of a pistol (Concealed weapons require a
Perception Test to spot. The Concealability Rating is the target
number.) 100¥

Gas-Vent System: Gas-vent recoil compensation systems vent a
weapon's barrel gases at a specific vector to counter barrel
climb. These systems are all barrel-mounted, and subtract from
the weapon’s Concealability. Once installed, gas-vent systems
cannot be removed. Two versions are available. Gas-vent

 

system with 2 points of recoil compensation, —1 Concealability:
450¥. Gas-vent system with 3 points of recoil compensation,
—2 Concealability: 700¥

Grenade Launcher: Actually a weapon in its own right, though
rarely used in modem forces except as an under-barrel addi-
tion to an assault rifle, the launcher fires a round from its
integral magazine with either a thumb-press button or a
separate trigger. These weapons fire only mini-grenades.
Available only in under-barrel versions. Once installed, it
cannot be removed. —3 Concealability. 1,700¥

Gyro Stabilization: These systems consist of a heavy upper-body
harness system with an attached, articulated, gyro-stabilized
arm that mounts a rifle or heavy weapon. The gyro-stabilization
system neutralizes recoil and movement modifiers. Standard
military systems also include smart goggles with a protected
cable connection. Mounted smartguns may still be fed through
standard palm induction links. While wom, the entire system
provides an additional point of impact and ballistic armor, and
is in no way concealable. It takes 5 minutes to get into a gyro-
mount hamess, 1 Complex Action to “quick-release” out of it.
Attaching or removing a weapon from the mount requires 2
Complex Actions. Standard Gyro-mount (Rating 5) 2,500¥,
Deluxe Gyro-mount (Rating 6) 6,000¥

Imaging Scopes: A variety of imaging scopes are available, includ-
ing low-light, infrared, and simple magnification. Imaging
scopes can only be top-mounted. Scopes may not be used
with smartlink systems. Scopes require 1 Complex Action to
install/remove. Magnification systems have a—1 Concealability
Rating, low-light and thermographic systems have a -2
Concealability. 500¥ for Rating 1 magnification, 800¥ for
Rating 2 magnification, 1,200¥ for Rating 3 magnification.
1,500¥ for low-light or thermographic capability.

Laser Sight: This device projects a laser beam to produce a glowing
red spot on the target point. The sight activates when the user
touches the trigger. Such sights may not be used with any kind
of smartlink system. Laser sights are available in under-barrel
or top-mounting versions. Mounting a laser sight adds —1 to
the Concealability Rating, and requires 1 Complex Action to
install/remove. 500¥

Shock Pads: Shock-absorbing pads that can be mounted on the
rigid shoulder stock (not folding stock) ofa rifle, assault rifle, or
shotgun, or on the hip brace of a heavy automatic weapon. The
shock pad gives 1 point of recoil compensation. 200¥

Silencer: A silencer is a barrel-mounted accessory that reduces the
sound and flash of a weapon's discharge. Silencers can only be
used with single-shot or semi-automatic weapons. They can-
not be used with revolvers. A silencer applies a +4 target
modifier to any attempt to notice the weapon's use, or to
locate the weapon’s firer. Using a silencer modifies
Concealability by —2, and requires 1 Complex Action to install/
remove. 500¥

 

240 SHADOWRUN
 

 

Smart Goggles: A pair of oversized goggles that connect by fiber-
optic cable to a weapon rigged as a smartgun. The chips in the
gun feed into the receptors in the goggles, producing red cross
hairs in the user’s field of vision, centered on where the gun is
pointing. The gun’s ammo status appears in the user’s field of
vision as well.

This system may be built into a helmet or, for enough
nuyen, rigged as mirrored sunglasses. In addition to simple
targeting, smart goggles may be set up for low-light or infrared
reception. 3,000¥ (+ 1 ,000¥ for low-light or infrared additions)

Smartgun Systems: Available in two forms, internal and external,
the system provides a feedback circuit relating the gun’s angle
of fire to the shooter's line of sight. The internal smartgun
system is built into the gun and doubles the weapon's cost if
installed after manufacturing. The external system mounts on
the weapon (top- or under-barrel positions) and can be trans-
ferred from weapon to weapon, with one hour of maintenance
and alignment. These units cost 600¥. Without a receptor
(smart goggles or smartlink), the hardware is simply dead
weight.

Sound Suppresser: Similar to silencers, sound suppressers are
used with burst-fire and full-auto-capable weapons. A sound
suppresser adds a +2 target modifier to any attempt to notice
the weapon's use or to locate the weapon's firer. Sound
suppressers must be replaced every 300 rounds of burst or
autofire. A sound suppresser modifies Concealability by —2,
and requires two Complex Actions to install/remove. 750¥

Spare Clips: Extra ammunition clips cost 5¥ per clip, unloaded.
They hold the maximum rounds available for the weapon, and
are not interchangeable from weapon to weapon, even within
the same class.

Tripod: A heavy, stable mounting for heavy weapons, tripods are
not concealable, and provide 6 points of recoil compensation.
600¥

AMMUNITION

In Shadowrun, each kind of gun can trade ammo with another
of its class. Thus, all light pistols share ammo. Use the categories
shown on the Weapon Range Table, p. 88, to determine what gun
types share ammo. Shotgun weapons, whether pistol or rifle, can
share ammo. Standard ammo costs 20¥ for 10 rounds.


See Ammunition rules in the Combat Section, p. 93, for special
game rules relating to the different kinds of ammunition.

Explosive Rounds: Very tiny versions of grenades, explosive
rounds come with standard military weapons. Though un-
popular with troops because of the disastrous results of a
weapon malfunction or misfire, these rounds remain in wide
use by both civilians and the military. Exposure to intense heat
such as flames or fireballs can also cook the touchy things. 50¥
for 10 rounds.

 

Smart Gun Link (External)

Flechette Rounds: Tiny, tightly-packed slivers function as the
business end of a flechette round. They are devastating against
unprotected targets, and will cut through standard ballistic
protection. Impact armor can easily stand up to this ammuni-
tion. 100¥ for 10 rounds.

Gel Rounds: Designed as a non-lethal round for riot control, these
rounds use a hard jelly-like substance to achieve their effect.
Impact armor is very effective against this ammunition, and
ballistic armor is affected normally. 30¥ for 10 rounds.

Stun Rounds: Also designed for riot control, these rounds work
only in large-bore weapons such as shotguns. Impact armor is
effective against this ammunition, but ballistic armor is useless
against the relatively high mass and low speed of these rounds.
100¥ per 10 rounds.

EXPLOSIVES

Hand Grenades: Grenades are small, self-contained packages of
explosive, timer, and detonator. They may be set to explode
on impact, or at any time from 2 seconds to 2 minutes. Non-
aerodynamic models often offer a “booby-trap” setting that
detonates by electric signal or pressure release. These models
are shaped as spheres or cylinders. Aerodynamic models are
rings or disks with superior range capabilities. Explosive
grenades come in one of three types. Defensive grenades have
the lowest radius of destruction, allowing the character to use
the grenade as he presses forward. Offensive grenades have a
higher fragmentation effect. Concussion grenades are in-
tended to have little fragmentation effect at all, relying on the
blast effect to stun or injure targets. 30¥ per grenade, regard-

less of type.

 

SHADOWRUN 241
1 wN

Mini-grenades: Mini-grenades are bullet-like projectiles designed
for grenade launchers. They cannot be armed and thrown.
Mini-grenades come in offensive, defensive, and concussion
forms, delivering the same blast as their larger brothers. Mini-
grenades cost 50¥ per grenade, regardless of type.

Plastic Explosives: Highly stable, moldable, and slightly sticky, these
substances are ideal for certain jobs, such as blowing a hole in a
wall. Compounds are usually color-tinted to indicate the level of
current needed to detonate them, from the black of magnetic-
field induction to the chalky white of 440-volt industrial explo-
sive. Commercial (non-plastic) explosives cost 60¥ per kilo-
gram. Compound IV plastic explosives cost 80¥ per kilo, and
Compound 12 costs 200¥ per kilo. Timers (2 second to 2 hours)
can be purchased for 100¥ each. Radio detonators (one-half
kilometer range) cost 250¥. The Damage Code is (Rating)D per
kilogram. Use the following formula for multiple kilograms:
(Rating ) x Vkilograms)D. The Power of the blast is reduced by the
base Rating per meter. See Blast Effects, p. 97.

}

 

ARMOR

Technically, there are two types of armor: dermal armor (cybernetic
or natural) and worn.

Dermal armor works against anything by increasing the
character's Body Attribute. It does not aid in healing.

External armor works differently. It has two ratings: ballistic
and impact. No matter how many pieces of armor are wom, only the
highest rating counts for Damage Resistance Tests.

Ballistic armor protects against projectiles delivering large
amounts of kinetic energy in short amounts of time, mostly bullets.
Impact armor protects against projectiles with lesser kinetic trans-
fer: projectile weapons, explosives, hand-held weapons, stun
ammunition, and damaging manipulation spells.

 

Armor Clothing: The prime choice for an everyday stroll along the
streets of 2053. Fashion designers worldwide offer a variety of
styles in fabrics made of descendants of Keviar™. 500¥

Armor Jacket: Available in a wide selection of tailoring, from chic
street styling to the harsh ribbed and padded aesthetic of
macho militarism, these jackets offer substantial protection.
900¥

Armor Vest: The vest provides slim-line protection under normal
clothing. Additional rigid plates provide improved protection
at the expense of subtlety. 200¥, or 600¥ with plates

Helmet: Most corporations provide distinctive headgear for their
security personnel. An exception to the basic rule, a helmet
does add its rating to other exterior armor. 200¥

Heavy Armor: These are obvious armors, often styled for intimida-
tion as much as for protection and ease of movement. They
already include helmets. Partial suits use rigid plates on the
torso and head and occasionally elsewhere. These plates may
be integral to an undersuit or attached separately. Full suits use
heavier undersuits and more extensive plating. They often
offer environmental sealing with minimal preparation. Heavy
armor also affects the Combat Pool. See Combat Pool, p. 84.
20,000¥ for full suit, 10,000¥ for partial

Lined Coat: Available in a variety of styles, the lined coat is a
popular form of armor. Its appearance is reminiscent of the
long dusters worn in the days of the wild West. It uses rigid
plates concealed between layers of ballistic cloth to cover vital
organs. Lined coats add +2 to the Concealability of any
weapon hidden under it. 700¥

SURVEILLANCE AND SECURITY
VISION ENHANCERS

Binoculars: These flat, compact digital imagers produce high
resolution at up to 50x magnification. Optical glass variants are
available for magicians. Enhanced models can operate in low-
light or function on thermographic principles. 100¥ for magni-
fication, 300¥ for low-light, 350¥ for thermographic

Goggles: Strap-on models or helmet visors allow low-light or
thermographic vision. 1,500¥ for magnification, 2,000¥ for
low-light, 2,200¥ for thermographic

COMMUNICATIONS
Kleen-tac™ backing makes these items attachable almost
anywhere.

Micro-transcelver: This flat 2 cm disk transmits on a preselected
radio frequency with a range of 5 kilometers. 2,500¥

Micro-recorder: This small (3 x 3 x 1.5 cm) case can record up to
6 hours. It may be set to voice-activation to increase effective
recording time. 1,000¥

Micro-camcorder: The case (3 x 5 x 2 cm) comes with a three-hour
vid cartridge. It may be set to activate with motion. The
recording’s image carries time indicators from its internal
clock. 2,500¥

 

2742 SHADOWRUN
GEAR

SURVEILLANCE MEASURES

Surveillance measures and countermeasures oppose each
other. See Using Equipment, p. 184 of Behind the Scenes.

Prices for surveillance measures and countermeasures are
listed for the base system, Rating 1. For the final cost of available
higher ratings, multiply the base cost by the rating. Generally, the
maximum rating is 10. See Availability, p. 184, for additional
information.

 

Data Codebreaker: This sophisticated device, the size of a brief-
case, unscrambles the encryption on a data pulse. It can
receive transmissions from dataline taps or accept standard
recordings. Base 10,000¥

Dataline Tap: Spliced into a dataline, the tap will transmit a copy
of any data to a distant receiver. To avoid detection, many
devices are set to conduct burst-data transmissions at irregular
intervals. Base 5,000¥

Laser Microphone: This device bounces a beam against a solid
object, reading the vibrational variations of the surface and
translating them into the sounds that are occurring on the other
side of the surface. Base 1,500¥

Shotgun Microphone: This directional microphone (30 x 8 cm
polyfoam-protected cone attached to a pistol grip) allows the
user to listen in on distant conversations. Solid objects block
reception, as do loud sounds outside of the line of eavesdrop-
ping. Base 1,000¥

Signal Locator: This comes in a hard plastic case with a map screen
in its lid. Using a detachable sensor, it triangulates on a set
tracking signal, displaying its location on the map. The device
can also sweep transmission bands for other tracking signals.
Base 1,000¥

Tracking Signal: This is a homing signal transmitter (4 cm-diameter
disk) with Kleen-tac™ backing. The typical transmission range
is 5 kilometers in cities. Smaller versions have correspondingly
smaller ranges. The criminal justice system uses a special ankle
band sealed on the leg of a criminal to broadcast his location
at all times. 100¥/point of Concealability

 

 

Voice Identifier: This system is designed to defeat voice-masking
devices. It analyzes the masked voice, offering a variety of
possible voices, one of which should be a recognizable version
of the original voice. Base 2,000¥

SURVEILLANCE COUNTERMEASURES

Bug Scanner: This hand-held device scans for the micro-induction
field created by micro-transceivers and other monitoring de-
vices. The scanner will not detect bugs unless they are transmit-
ting. The case’s holographic screen displays a directional arrow
pointing to the bug. Base 500¥

Data Encryption System: Placed in-line with any fiber-optic trans-
mission device, this system will encrypt the signal so that it can
be unscrambled only by a receiver with the proper decode
sequence. The keypad on this device allows selection of
random or pre-arranged codings. Base 1 ,000¥

Dataline Scanner: When in-line with a system, this device emits a
pulse, measures its return, and analyzes the echo to detect the
presence of dataline taps, even those that are inactive. The
scanner cannot determine the location of the tap. Base 100¥

Jammer: This transmitter overrides broadcast signals, scrambling
them by filling the band with garbage. Base 1 ,000¥

Voice Mask: This small disk (3 cm-diameter), when worn or held
near the throat, creates a resonating frequency to distort the
timbre and pitch of the user’s voice. Base 3,000¥

White Noise Generator: This device creates a field of random noise,
masking the sounds within its area. It is designed to defeat
eavesdroppers and long-range microphones (shotgun or la-
ser). Base 1,500¥

SECURITY DEVICES

Security device prices are listed for the base of Rating 1. Higher
ratings are available; multiply the base cost by the rating to get the
final cost. The usual maximum is Rating 10. See Availability, p. 184.

Identification Scanners: A variety of devices contain readers (pads
for thumbprints and palmprints; eyecup pads for retinal scans)
and library files of recording patterns. Most record the patterns
of anyone who attempts to use the scanner. ID scanners are
often incorporated into locks, which then open only to autho-
rized patterns. Base 200¥ for thumbprint scanner, 300¥ for
palmprint scanner, 1,000¥ for retinal scanner

Maglocks: Household and commercial security rely almost exclu-
sively on maglocks, computer-controlled systems operable
only with the proper passcode, keycard, or credstick. Usually,
the only visible component of these locks is the slot or slot-
keypad mount. In high-security areas, a thumbpad or retinal
scanner may also be present. Maglocks may be linked to the
PANICBUTTON™ system to signal an alarm if tampering with
the lock occurs. Base 100¥

Maglock Passkeys: These sophisticated electronic devices fool a
maglock into opening. Use of such systems often leaves the
lock scrambled or sluggish in response, providing a warning
that the lock has been violated. Base 10,000¥

Restraints: Besides the usual metal models, high-tech plastic strips
may be heat-fused to a subject's wrists or ankles, where they

 

SHADOWRUN 243
74

will remain in place until cut free. Such restraints can be painful
if the wearer resists their constraints. 50¥ for metal (effective
Barrier Rating 12), 20¥ for plastic (effective Barrier Rating 15)
Squealer: Formally known as a location forbidder, this small box is
strapped to the wrist or ankle of corporate employees or
visitors. When the wearer approaches within a specified dis-
tance of a restricted area, the box emits a polite warming. Ata
closer distance, the device transmits a call to security and
activates a siren to alert guards in the area. (It has an effective
Rating 5 for the purposes of avoiding jamming.) 100¥

SURVIVAL GEAR

Some pieces of survival gear have prices listed for the base
system, Rating 1. Higher ratings are available; multiply the base
cost by the rating to get the final cost. The usual maximum is Rating
10. See Availability, p. 184, for additional information.

 

Chemsuit: This slick, inpermeable garment usually consists of booted
coveralls, a hooded poncho, and mittens. The hood is often
transparent, at least in the face area, and fitted with an air filter.
Designer versions are popular in the UCAS and other industrial-
ized areas for the miserable, “hard rain” days. Base 200¥

Respirator: This is a small oxygen cylinder (20 x 10 cm) connected
by a plastic hose to a full or partial face mask. It provides
enough air for several hours of moderate exertion. A pressure
regulator allows the wearer to use the respirator underwater.
500¥ for respirator, 250¥ additional for pressure regulator

Survival Kit: This rugged bag contains a useful assortment of stuff:
flares, small utility knife, lighter, matches, compass, light-
weight thermal blanket, several days’ worth of ration bars, a
water-purification unit, a filter mask, and other items. 100¥

 

 

WORKING GEAR

To use Build/Repair Skills requires tools to do the job. Tools in
Shadowrun come in kits, shops, and facilities.

A kit is portable and contains the basic gear to make repairs.

A shop is transportable with a large van or small truck.

A facility is immobile because of the bulky, heavy machines
involved.

The prices are variable, depending on the type of tools. The
base cost is 500¥ for a kit, 5,000¥ for a shop, and 100,000¥ for a
facility.

General construction uses basic tools, which have the base
cost. Electronic, computer, and cyberware repairs require
microtronics tools, which cost triple the base figures.

Vehicle tools cost double the base figures.

LIFESTYLE
ENTERTAINMENT

Music: Recorded music comes in two basic forms, laser-read
compact disks (CD) and optical chips (OC). Both formats record
to a fidelity far beyond the average person's discrimination.
Playback units are slightly larger than the storage disk, fitting
comfortably in the hand or clipping to a belt. Extra speakers can
achieve a “total dimension of sound.” Headsets or mastoid-
implant speakers are available for private listening. Units with
flat roll-out screens are available for disks with video tracks.

Video: Video recording systems long ago switched to digital
information-storage and liquid-crystal screens. Most recorders
function in the pseudo-holographic format popularly known as
trideo, or trid. Despite technical advances, the production of
high-quality holograms in open air still eludes technicians.
Even those produced under controlled conditions lack proper
texture and animation. Trid screens range from tiny, 30mm
diagonal wristphone displays to wall-sized arrays. Screens
capable of displaying recorded imagery have the usual image-
speed and quality controls, as well as simple special-effects
distortion and color-alteration capability.

Simsense: Simulated sensory impressions are the latest fashion in
entertainment. Developed from the early ASIST (Artificial
Sensory Induction Systems) technology, the system consists of
a lightweight headset that deceives the user by inducing false
sensory signals in the brain. The user, despite the imperfect
simulation and the undercurrent of sensory impressions from
the real world around him, experiences a programmed set of
stimuli while neural overrides prevent him from injuring him-
self or others during playback. Most users prefer programs that
are “hosted” by a specific simstar whose actual sensations are
the ones that have been recorded, allowing the user a true
vicarious experience. Many simstars have cults of fans devoted
to them and emulating their every move. The simsense
headset is connected by fiber optics to a player unit. A unit may
be set up for direct feed into a datajack. Portable simsense
recorders are available to the public, but they lack the clarity
and editing capability of professional equipment.

 

244 SHADOWRUN
 

Live Performance: Live performances continue to be popular in the
2050s. Performers, both actors and singers, often have im-
planted voice amplifiers, either simple volume enhancers or
sophisticated transmitting microphones that broadcast to speak-
ers placed around the hall. Such equipment often features
voice modifiers and sound-effects generators. The basic shape
and style of musical instruments have changed little, but there
has been a proliferation of the electronic versions. Few, if any,
pop performers use anything other than synthesized sound.
Highly technical musicians work with a synthlink, a special
system that operates through a datajack to allow the user to
cybemetically control his instrument for greater complexity
and subtlety of sound than is otherwise possible.

Networks: Corporate-owned and viewer-supported networks still
make up the bulk of transmitted trideo in 2053. Although the
term “broadcasting” remains in use, all transmissions are
digitized and travel over fiber-optic cables to individual sub-
scribers.

ELECTRONICS

The personal electronics industry, apart from the enormous
computer and cyber subsectors, is one of the major growth sectors
of the world economy in 2053. Samples are ubiquitous, and
advertising invasive. Everywhere the citizen is bombarded with
catch phrases and taglines—compact, flexible, advanced, stylish,
tailored. All are buzzwords used to describe the wonders of 2 1 st-
century technology.

Credstick: A credstick is a combination passport, keyring, credit
card, checkbook, and business card. It is a small plastic cylinder
tapering to a point. The blunt end houses a computer. The chip
in the credstick contains the owner's System Identification
Number (SIN), credit balance, financial records, and resumé, as
well as passcodes for the owner's locks. When used to conduct

 

transactions or access the owner's records or property, the
credstick transmits identification data from a simple ID number
(standard) or a thumbprint (silver stick) or a retinal pattern
(platinum sticks) to the bank or lock. The transmission must
match the data on file, and the user must confirm by typing the
ID number, thumbing a pad, or submitting to a retinal scan, as
appropriate. Once the user is confirmed as the owner of the
credstick, the transaction is approved or the lock opened.
Credsticks record transactions not already in the financial
computer network, but they must be periodically connected to
the network to validate such transactions. Failure to do so
results in invalidation of all non-network transactions and
cancellation of the credstick’s financial function. Limited-use
credsticks carry a specified credit limit, much like a certified
check. Ownership of a certified credstick is by the bearer.

Telecom: The telecom is the entertainment and communication
center of the modem home. It also provides a work station for
a home office or the telecommuting corporate worker. The
typical telecom functions as a telephone with audio-video
reception and transmission (speaker phone is the normal
mode, but handsets and headsets, with or without connecting
fibers, are available), a computer with display screen, and
keyboard (advanced models have datajacks and interface
hardware), and a television (the most advanced models fea-
ture simsense ports). The exact services accessible through the
telecom depends on the owner's subscriptions. Subscription
services include the usual entertainment, sales, news, dating,
sports, and literary channels; magazine and news services,
with printouts available through the computer printer; public
data access; phone services on local or long-distance nets; and
secretarial services.

Portable Phones: Portable phones range from the common wrist
models, with or without flip-up view screen, to “walkie-talkie”
handset units, to audio-only earplug models with lightweight

 

SHADOWRUN 245
 

boom microphones. Range is limited, but the user may wear
a booster pack on his belt or on any other convenient surface
or part of his clothes. Portable phones without a fiber link-up
are subject to electromagnetic distortions and jamming.

Pocket Secretary: The pocket secretary is an office for the business-
man on the go. The compact unit functions as a portable
phone, a computer (100 Mp), and filing system. Standard
software performs call screening, answering-machine func-
tions, automatic teleconfirmation of credit transactions, word
processing with standard letters on file and stenographer
functions. Pocket secretaries are never equipped for jacking
into the Matrix. Cases are shock- and water-resistant for
durability and long service.

Personal Computers: The standard personal computer of 2053 is
the size of a keyboard. It has a roll-out flat-screen monitor. A
digital radio signal transmits input and output to peripherals.
Program and data cartridges are the size ofa standard credstick
and slot into the ends of the keyboard. Internal program
storage is more than sufficient for common programs such as
word and data processors, communications software, and
games, and the storage is non-volatile (stored indefinitely).
Disposable printers for one-color printing come attached to
containers of paper, barely increasing the size. Full-color
printers add two centimeters to the height of the paper box.
Smaller computers exist, usually designed for a particular
function. These accept a limited range of spoken commands,
and they output data in a synthesized voice. They may be fiber-
linked to a monitor. Internal storage capacity is limited, and
they do not accept standard program or data cartridges. Some
models have miniature keyboards, usable with a stylus, accept
links to standard keyboards, or recognize handwriting.

Data Display Systems: Typical data units have fold-up monitors
and will accept on-line input or standard chip cartridges,
allowing them to function as a computer's display screen, a
television, a video player, or a simple data reader. For people
who work with their hands, there are headset units that project
data in “heads-up” display on a surface such as a transparent
face shield, the lens of a pair of glasses, or a monocle. A
headset unit usually has only one slot to accept standard data
cartridges (1,000 Mp). Helmets of government and corporate
military forces often have headset display units, allowing
soldiers to access maps and other important tactical data
without disrupting their regular functions.

CYBERWARE

Each item of cyberware has an Essence Cost. This is the
reduction of the character's Essence Rating that occurs when the
cyberware is implanted. If a character’s Essence ever falls below O,
his life force ebbs and he will die in short order. Even O Essence is
tough to handle, promoting despair and melancholy. Folks of such
low Essence walk the thin edge of sanity.

HEADWARE

This hardware, small and complex, requires the replacement of
sections of the cranium with plastic plates of artificial bone. There is
no loss of skull strength.

 

Communications

Chipjack: A specialized form of datajack that allows access to a
skillsoft or datasoft. 1,000¥

Datajack: The almost universal mark of the cyber-conscious user,
standard datajacks allow both input and output to certain
headware and bodyware items. 1,000¥

Radio: This headware allows full-band, limited-range communica-
tions. The signal quality is rarely as good asa telephone, but the
ability to switch bands makes the system more popular with
the military or any user expecting active jamming. When
transmitting, the user must speak, though it may be in tones
inaudible to those nearby. For the cost- or health-conscious,
receiver-only models are available. 4,000¥ for two-way radio,
2,000¥ for receiver. Multiply the cost by the rating of any levels
of ECM/ECCM installed. See Using Equipment, p. 184.

Synthlink: This specialized datajack linked to control systems is a
musician’s tool, allowing cybernetic use of music synthesizers.
1 ,OOO¥

 

246 SHADOWRUN
7.4

Telephone: A real headphone allows the user to access the telenet
from his head. Like all mobile phones, the quality of the link is
unsuitable for a decking connection. The user may speak
normally or, with the pressure on a sub-dermal switch, speak
sub-vocally. 3, 700¥

Ears

Cyber replacement of the ears typically features an obvious
prosthesis that provides perfect hearing within normal ranges. The
cyberear will also accept a minor additional adjustment (one feature
of .2 Essence Cost or less) without additional impact on the user's
system. 4,000¥ for replacement, 2,000¥ for modification

Cosmetic Modification: There is an endless variety of shapes and
sizes. By far the most popular is the pointing and/or extension
for metahuman wannabees. 1,000¥

Damper: This modification protects the user from sudden increases
in sound level as well as providing partial protection from
damaging frequencies. 3,500¥

High Frequency: The user can hear sounds of pitch higher than the
normal human hearing range. 3,000¥

Low Frequency: The user can hear sounds of pitch lower than the
normal human hearing range. 3,000¥

Recorder: The user can record anything he can hear. The recorder
can play back recordings inside the head (with a cyberear or
modification). If linked to a standard datajack, it can play them
back through a speaker. 7,000¥

Eyes

Cyber replacement of normal eyes offers 20/20 vision as
standard. It almost always involves both eyes, because mismatched
pairs will send imbalanced signals to the brain. In outward appear-
ance the implants may be indistinguishable from biological eyes (at
least without an eye exam) or they may be outlandish, ranging from
gold or neon irised effects (complete with gold-lettered
manufacturer’s logo) to the high-chrome, featureless effect.
Cybereyes will accept additional vision enhancements up to .5
Essence Cost without further Essence loss. 5,000¥

Retinal modification, rather than eye replacement, is also an
option for the appearance-conscious, but each feature impacts
independently on the user’s system. Duplication of another person’s
retinal pattern, either permanently in a retinal modification or as a

 

stored pattern in a cybereye, is a capital crime. It is also of dubious
use, because the duplicate rarely is of high enough fidelity to
consistently fool retinal scanners. Continual changes also are a
health hazard. 50,000¥ times the rating (for use against retinal
scanners).

Camera: The brain can store a digital copy of any image viewed
through the eye. If the eyes are linked to a standard datajack,
images may be downloaded to any data system. Recording 1!
second of video requires 1 Mp of storage. Otherwise, the
image-storage chip must be removed through a port in the
eye. 5,000¥

Cosmetic Modification: Alteration of iris color is the most popular
type, but pupil-shape alteration and cornea pigmentation are
also common. 1,000¥

Flare Compensation: This protects the user from blinding flashes of
light, as well as simple glare. Eliminates glare vision modifiers.
2,000¥

Low-Light: The user can see normally in light levels as low as
starlight. Total darkness, rare in the cities of the 2050 era, still
renders the user as blind as an unmodified person. 3,000¥

Thermographic: This cyberware operates in the infrared portion of
the spectrum, allowing the user to see heat patterns. Light
level has no effect, but strong sources of heat act much like a
bright glare does to normal vision, often blinding the user.
3,000¥

Internal Headware

Cortex Bombs: These are an illegal method of coercion offering the
ultimate headache. A small amount of fuergel or some similar
explosive is implanted at the brain stem. The triggering
circumstance is determined at the time of implant, either set as
a timer or prepared for the receipt of an electromagnetic signal.
Most cortex bombs are booby-trapped, rigged to explode if
the wearer’s nervous system is tampered with in any way. The
explosion of a cortex bomb kills the wearer and endangers
those around him (1-meter radius, 5D explosion). 500,000¥

Memory: This is the definition of the computing power of a
character's headware systems. It covers the storage space as
well. Unless the character wants to change data surgically, he
needs a datajack. Memory is the amount of space available in
megapulses (Mp). Raw data, skill software, and certain pro-
grams can be stored, but other equipment gives the user
access to them. 100¥ times the number of Mp

Datasoft Link: This gives the user mental access to his KnowSofts,
either in a chipjack or downloaded into headware memory.
1 ,000¥

Display Link: This allows a user to display data on the retina or
cybereye, letting him read what is displayed in his head.
1,000¥

Data Lock: This denies wearers access to their own cyber memory
space. Input or output through a datajack requires a special
code. This option is very popular for couriers. 1,000¥

Data Filter: This is a special sensory block that prohibits wearers
from absorbing sensory data into their own memory while
retaining the data in their cybernetic memory. A data filter

 

SHADOWRUN 247
fw .N

turns a character into an organic audio-visual recorder, un-
aware of what he has heard and witnessed while the recording
feature is active. This is very popular for confidential couriers
and secretaries. 5,000¥

 

Skillsofts: Memory ona chip. When utilized in conjunction with the

proper headware and bodyware, skillsofts allow users to know
and do things they actually never learned in the normal
fashion. Because a skillsoft’s “memory imaging” encoding
differs radically from any actual memories or leamed experi-
ences the user may already have, the skillwire system must
override the user’s own reflexes, abilities, and memories,
forcing a reliance on the encoded capabilities. When a skillsoft
is accessed that duplicates a skill the character already pos-
sesses naturally, he uses only the skillsoft’s rating. The character's
natural ability is lost for the duration of the skillsoft access.

Skillsofts come in three types. KnowSofts replicate Knowl-
edge Skills like Science or Mental Skills. A sub-classification of
KnowSoft is the LinguaSoft which allows language use and
replicates Language Skills. DataSofts are raw data, pure infor-
mation, like that found in a textbook. No application or
comprehension ability comes with the DataSoft, just the data.
ActiveSofts replicate Active Skills like Combat, Physical, Tech-
nical, or Vehicle Skills.

KnowSofts can be accessed through a chipjack, or up-
loaded into headware memory and accessed with a datasoft
link. DataSofts can be accessed through a datajack or chipjack,
sent to a display or datasoft link, or put into headware memory
and downloaded to a display link or datasoft link. Full skillwire
systems are required for the use of ActiveSofts.

Additional chipjacks can accommodate additional
skillsofts. Skillsofts are usually sold installed in 5-centimeter-

 

long cylinders to protect the chip until it is inserted into a jack.
Once the chip is in, and the data transferred, the user can
remove the chip. Skillsofts can be accessed just the same
whether via a datajack or downloaded into headware memory.

Ifdownloaded, the resulting program takes up the amount
of space shown on the Skill Memory Table.

ActiveSofts do not provide associated Dice Pools. For
example, the user of a Computer ActiveSoft does not receive
a Hacking Pool. Additionally, Magic Skills like Sorcery and
Conjuring cannot be made into ActiveSofts.

SKILLSOFT COSTS
Cost
Mp x 150¥

Mp x 50¥
Varies with value of data
Mp x 100¥

 

BODYWARE

Bodyware is cyberware implanted in locations other than the

user's head. Some types, such as dermal plating, also involve
additions to the skull.

Dermal Plating: This is an invasive protection system that uses hard

plastic and metal fiber plates bonded to the user’s skin to
produce dermal armor. Dermal plating does limit skin flexibil-
ity and is obvious. The armor plates may be tailored to any
surface texture or color. It comes in three strengths, which
affect the level ofinvasion. The character's Body is increased by
the rating. 6,000¥ for Rating 1; 15,000¥ for Rating 2; 45,000¥
for Rating 3. Does not assist in healing.

Filtration Systems: These systems operate to protect the user from

specified substances. Toxins and rated gases oppose the
system's rating. If the system fails, the toxin takes effect at full
value. A replacement trachea fitted with filters protects the
user from smoke and most gases. A specialized form, the
artificial gill, allows the user to filter oxygen from water. A
kidney replacement includes toxin filters to remove foreign
agents from the bloodstream. It is effective against most
injected drugs and many diseases. There is also a system of
implanted filters designed to detoxify a wide range of poisons,
including alcohol, taken orally. Ratings to a maximum of 10 are
available. 15,000¥ times the rating for an air filter, 10,000¥
times the rating for a blood or toxin filter

SKILL MEMORY TABLE
Rating (in Mp)

Skill Type

3
General 30
Concentration 18
Specialization 12

Language 9

248 SHADOWRUN

4
200
120
80

24

5
250
150
100

30

6
300
180
120

36

 
FAN

Fingertip Compartment: This is a small storage space replacing the
last joint of a finger. It is ideal for concealing data chips. It is also
commonly used for the concealment of a monofilament whip,
because the replacement joint can serve as the control weight.
3,000¥

Hand Razors: These are 2.5-centimeter chromed steel or carbon
fiber blades that replace the user’s fingernails. The razors
anchor to the user’s bones. Retractable versions slide out of
sight under synthetic nail replacements. 4,500¥, 9,000¥ for
retractable version

 

Limbs: Substitute limbs come in two basic models, obvious
cyberlimbs and fully functional, natural-looking replacements.
Replacements offer no special abilities. Other cyberlimbs can
offer enhanced strength, but the typical user can rarely apply
the limb’s full strength. Trying to lift a car single-handedly will
only bring a character grief and pain as the limb rips free from
its flesh-and-blood moorings. Cyberlimbs may have spurs and
hand razors at no additional loss to the user’s system. Multiple
replacements make the user less vulnerable to additional
damage. Each pair of limbs replaced counts as one level of
dermal armor. 50,000¥ for replacement, 100,000¥ for
cyberlimb, plus 150,000¥ for each level of increased strength

Muscle Replacement: Implanted, vat-grown synthetic muscles
replace the user's own. Calcium treatments and skeletal rein-
forcement allow an overall increase in the user’s strength.
Rating increases apply to Strength and Quickness, but this

 

change does not affect Reaction. The maximum increase is 4.
20,000¥ times the rating

Skillwires: These are an invasive system of neuro-muscular control-
lers necessary for a user to take advantage of ActiveSofts. The
Skillwire Rating limits the total rating of all the ActiveSofts in
use at any one time. The system includes a chipjack for the
insertion ofaskillsoft. 10,000¥ times the Rating if 1-3, 100,000¥
times the Rating if 46, 1,000,000¥ times the Rating if 7-9

Smartlink: This is the feedback loop circuitry necessary to take full
advantage of a smartgun. Targeting information appears on
the user’s retina or cybereye as a small dot or cross hairs that
corresponds to the smartweapon’s current line of fire. Typical
systems use a subdermal induction pad in the user’s palm to
link with the smartgun. 2,500¥

Spur: A narrow blade attached to the user’s bone, similar to a
razor. Retractable versions must be placed where they can be
withdrawn along a long bone. Alternatively, a set of three
smaller blades may be anchored to the back of the hand.
7,000¥; 1 1,500¥ for retractable

Vehicle Control Rig: These are neuro-enhancers and muscular signal
transference (MST) interfaces. Each level adds +2 to the user’s
Reaction while rigging. Each level also allows an additional + 1D6
Initiative die when the user is controlling a vehicle through a
datajack that is equipped with vehicle control gear. 12,000¥ for
Level 1,60,000¥ for Level 2,300,000¥ for Level 3

Voice Modulator: Voice modulators are popular with entertainers.
Stage performers commonly make use of the volume feature,
and singers use the tonal shift. 45,000¥ plus the cost of
features. Increased volume makes the user into a loudspeaker
(10,000¥). Tonal shift alters tones for perfect bird calls, mellif-
luous singing, and uncanny vocal impressions. Modulations
and secondary quavers make detection simple for a vocal-
pattern recognizer (25,000¥). Secondary patter, an illegal
modification, allows the user to install a second vocal pattern
and reproduce it in a form that is almost indistinguishable from
an unmodified pattern (50,000¥). Playback allows the user to
access an audio record, in data storage or fed in through a
datajack, and reproduce it almost perfectly (40,000¥).

Wired Reflexes: These are implanted neural boosters and adrena-
line stimulators. Each level adds +2 to the user’s Reaction and
gives +1D6 Initiative die. 55,000¥ for Level 1, 165,000¥ for
Level 2, 500,000¥ for Level 3

CYBERDECKS AND PROGRAMS
This gear is described in the Matrix chapter, p. 160.

BIOTECH

DocWagon™ Contract: Don’t leave home without it! DocWagon™
Offers first-class medical care on a 24-hour, house (or street) call
basis. Once a call from a platinum card-holder is confirmed, most
DocWagon™ franchises guarantee arrival of a trauma team in
less than ten minutes, or else the immediate medical care is free.
Resuscitation service carries a high premium, as does High
Threat Response (HTR) service. In the latter case, the client (or his
heir) is expected to pay medical bills up to and including death
compensation for DocWagon™ employees. A DocWagon™

 

SHADOWRUN 249
GEAR

contract requires a filing of tissue samples (held in a secure vault
staffed by bonded guards) and comes with a sealed-band,
direct-dial wrist phone, which also serves as a homing beacon
for the roving DocWagon™ ambulances and choppers. Rupture
of the band will, of course, alert the DocWagon™ representative.
Gold service includes one free resuscitation per year, 50 percent
reduction on HTRservice charges, and a 10 percent discount on
extended care. Platinum service includes four free resuscitations
per year. There is no charge for HTR services, but employee
death compensation still applies. It carries a 50 percent discount
on extended care. 5,000¥ per year for basic service, 25,000¥ for
gold service, 50,000¥ for platinum service

Medkit: The 2053 medkit is well-equipped to handle most typical
medical emergencies. It includes drug supplies, bandages,
tools, and even a doctor. Actually, it is an expert system
(Biotech 3) designed to diagnose problems from information
given by the user. The system will request more information if
the diagnosis is unclear. Having determined a course of action,
the kit will advise the user on techniques. The kit may be able
to concoct a specific antidote to a toxin (Biotech Skill Test
against the toxin’s Virulence Level), thereby canceling the
toxin’s effects. Medkits are, of course, not infallible and a
standard waiver of liability must be filed with the manufacturer
on purchase of the item. Most models will advise of their
inability to supply proper treatment as well as issuing remind-
ers when their stocks of expendable materials are low. Sup-
plies run out on a result of 1 on a 1D6 rolled following a
treatment. 200¥, 50¥ for new drugs


Organic Replacements: Vat-grown replacement tissues and organs
are readily available. Most common are “Type O” products
tailored for minimal rejection-reaction, although they require a
program of tailored immuno-suppressant treatment to prevent
a body’s rejection of the transplant. The safest transplant material
is grown from samples of the patient’s own body. Regrettably,
no replacements for brain or nervous tissue are yet available, and
fully viable clones of a person exist only in the realm of fiction.
See Healing, p. 112, for details.



SLAP PATCHES

Slap patches are adhesive drug-dispensers that release mea-
sured doses to allow continual, safe administration of necessary
chemicals. Patches must be applied directly against the patient's
skin. Dermal armor hinders their effects (reduce the Patch Rating by
the Armor Rating), and blood filtration implants make all but the
trauma patch ineffective.

Antidote Patch: This releases a broad-spectrum toxin antidote to
aid the patient in resisting the effects of a toxin. The Patch
Rating adds to the subject’s Body Attribute for Resistance
Tests. Multiple patches give no additional effect. 50¥ times its
rating

Stimulant Patch: This releases a non-addictive stimulant to keep a
character awake at those times when awareness is vital. When
used, reduce the Stun Damage on the Condition Monitor by a
number of blocks equal to the patch’s rating. Magicians should
be wary of side-effects that may damage their ability to use
magic. The magician makes a Magic Test against a target
number equal to the patch’s rating. If the test fails, the magician
must follow the procedure for possible Essence loss as ifhe had
taken a Deadly wound. (See Healing, p. 112, for details.) The
effects of the patch wear off in 2D6 minutes and the removed
damage is restored, plus one box of damage. 25¥ times its
rating

Tranq Patch: This is designed to anesthetize patients in preparation
for medical attention. Trang patches are also used in some
circles to sedate unruly prisoners. Both the patch and the
patient must make a test. Each one uses its own Rating (Body
Rating for the patient) as the number of dice to roll and the
other’s rating as the target number. If the patch generates
more successes than the character, each net success fills in a
block on the Stun damage track of the subject’s Condition
Monitor. 20¥ times its rating

Trauma Patch: This is the last-ditch hope of a victim unable to
receive medical care. The trauma patch must be placed over
the victim’s heart. It allows the character a second chance
against death. See Healing, p. 112. 500¥

Stabilization Unit: An enclosed capsule with carrying handles, this
unit is designed to stabilize a critically wounded person until
proper medical care can be applied. It is standard equipment
on DocWagon™ vehicles and in use with all the better ambu-
lance services. The unit extends the amount of time a character
has to escape death. Each minute of time in the stabilization
unit becomes a number of hours equal to the rating. 10,000¥
for the standard model, (Rating 2), 20,000¥ for the deluxe
(Rating 6)

MAGICAL EQUIPMENT

See the Magic chapter, p. 116, for item descriptions.

 

250 SHADOWRUN
Les

Bikes

VEHICLES

GROUND

Vehicles operate on varied forms of power. Economy models
and those intended for use with a power grid usually use high-
capacity storage batteries that can be recharged at stations, parking
garages, or on a grid track. Some have solar cell auxiliaries, but
these provide only limited power. Vehicles in use with the Native
American tribes or in outlying areas sometimes rely on alcohol fuels
easily derived from organic materials. Long-distance vehicles still
use some petroleum-derivative fuels. Luxury vehicles usually use
petrochem. Whatever the form of fuel, the vehicles still handle with
similar efficiency, the main differences arising in the cost and
availability of the fuel and in the capacity of the vehicle for sustained
travel.

Some ground vehicles have limited self-guidance capability.
They can follow a programmed map and still react to conditions
around them. The autopilot is very cautious, often stopping for no
reason apparent to the passenger. Unexpected roadblocks confuse
the system, prompting it to ask for instructions. The Autopilot
Rating acts as the equivalent of the appropriate driving skill for the
vehicle.

Combat vehicles have hardpoints and firmpoints to contain
weapon systems. Some also have weapons incorporated into their
structure. Such weapons may not be changed to suit a mission, as
can those on a hardpoint. Hardpoints accept any heavy weapon or
special weapons designed for vehicles. They halve the recoil
modifier for the weapon. Firmpoints accept any firearm smaller than
a heavy weapon. They also provide 1 point of recoil compensation.
Weapons must be purchased separately. Adaptation of a weapon
for a vehicle mount doubles its cost.

Cars

Mitsubishi Runabout: A one-person, three-wheeler that runs on
electric power, the Runabout is designed for commuters and
short-distance errands. It is affectionately referred to as “the
box,” due to its blocky shape. 10,000¥

Chrysler-Nissan Jackrabbit: This electric two-seater’s low price
and heavy advertising campaign have made it the most
common car on North American highways. The back section
may be used as a trunk or space to squeeze in another two
passengers. 15,000¥

Ford Americar: A mid-size sedan. 20,000¥

Eurocar Westwind 2000: A sleek, low-slung speed machine. Side
wheel-panel covers slide down in parking mode to lock and
protect the tires. 100,000¥

Toyota Elite: A full-size luxury car whose interior appointments
beggar some penthouse apartments. It has a superior autopi-
lot. 125,000¥

Mitsubishi Nightsky: The limousine of the well-to-do, the Nightsky’s
interior style and features make the Elite look like a cheap Sri
Lankan import. A full suite of anti-theft systems, armor, medkit,
rigger controls, telecom with direct satellite link-up, and wet
bar are standard features. The autopilot is superior. Concealed
defensive weaponry is often retrofitted. 250,000¥

 

 

 

Yamaha Rapier

Dodge Scoot: An electric intra-city scooter. 2,000¥

Yamaha Rapier: A fast street machine whose slick styling makes it a
favorite with go-gangs. 10,000¥

Harley Scorpion: A classic, heavy-bodied road hog. The Scorpion
features folding aerodynamic panels that double as armor. Many
consider it a combat bike. It can carry up to three firmpoints.
15,000¥ plus 1,000¥ per firmpoint

HOVERCRAFT

Chrysler-Nissan G1 2a: This is a general-purpose hovercraft that sees
duty in passenger and freight versions. The separate driver’s
compartment seats two, and the six-ton cargo flat may be fitted
with a 30-passenger cabin. 50,000¥

BOATS

Watercraft feature the same power sources as ground vehicles,
with a higher proportion using petrochem fuels. Large freighters are
almost completely robot-controlled. The largest super-freighters and
tankers have fusion plants.

Motorboats

Samuvani-Criscraft Otter: A popular mid-size craft fine for pleasure
boating, the Otter also does light hauling and utility work.
20,000¥

 

Eurocar Westwind 2000

 

SHADOWRUN 251
GEAR

Aztech Nightrunner: This small, two-seat craft is equipped with
auxiliary electric engines for silent running. Its composite hull
and non-reflective paint, which reduce its heat signature, make
it hard to detect. It can mount two firmpoints. 30,000¥

Sailboats

Sendanko Marlin: Designed as a pleasure boat, this 15-foot craft
has gained notoriety as the favored boat of the infamous
smuggler Janos Smoot ever since the Channel 32 docudrama
of the irascible criminal’s life. 15,000¥

AIRCRAFT

Save for a few solar-powered pleasure and reconnaissance
vehicles, aircraft are petrochem guzzlers. Designs are sophisti-
cated, usually featuring fly-by-wire controls and adjustable air-
frames. Added to the availability of new composite materials, this
has allowed the dreams of visionary designers of the 20th century
to become everyday reality.

Autopilot systems work in a similar fashion to those on ground
vehicles, but they are almost always tied into the Navstar position-
location system. Aircraft categories are based on the system that
provides the major portion of their lift.

Winged Planes
The minimum air speed of these craft is 50 meters per Combat
Turn.

Cessna C750: A dual-prop craft serving as transport, the Cessna
C750 can be configured to carry six passengers. The plane also
sees service with border patrols and surveillance corporations.
200,000¥

Lear Platinum I: This sleek flying limousine carries advanced
materials and features. It is the airborne equivalent of the
Mitsubishi Nightsky. 500,000¥

Rotorcraft

Federated Boeing Commuter: A tilt-wing craft, the Commuter is
designed for rapid transport to and from sites with limited
landing area. It is primarily a passenger carrier. 625,000¥

Hughes WK-2 Stallion: The workhorse helicopter of the mid-2 1st
century, this venerable design has seen a number of modifica-
tions. It features a two-seat tandem cockpit and a cabin that
seats ten people. Armed (two hardpoints, two firmpoints)
military variants are common in much of the world. 300,000¥

Ares Dragon: This large, double-rotor helicopter has a variety of
military and civilian applications, from passenger transport (it
can carry 24 battle-armed troops) through cargo and heavy-
lifting duty to serving as a command post. It can mount two
hardpoints. 600,000¥

Hughes Airstar: This luxury helicopter was designed for speed and
agility. The standard corporate model carries armor and luxu-
rious appointments. There are many reports of variants with
concealed weapons. 900,000¥

 

 

 

MILITARY AND RESTRICTED-
ISSUE VEHICLES

EFA Variants: Designed as the European Economic Community's
general fighter, this craft has been pirated worldwide, proving
to be an extremely durable design primarily because of its ease
of maintenance and adaptability to improved electronics and
weapon systems. Many corporations maintain a squadron for
escorting VIP jets. It carries an assault cannon in its nose and
four hardpoints. 5,000,000¥

Thunderbirds

This is slang for a category of low-altitude vehicles (LAV) in
service with militaries and corporations worldwide. These vehicles
are heavily armed and armored and capable of extended operations
in hostile environments.

GMC Banshee: This light t-bird is designed for reconnaissance and
courier duty. It carries two assault cannons, two heavy ma-
chine guns, an autocannon in its turret, four hardpoints, and
two surveillance/decoy drones.

Security Vehicles

This classification includes a variety of urban combat vehicles
ranging from police squad cars to anti-terrorist assault vehicles. All
are well-armored and capable of traversing typical city rubble.

GMC Banshee

 

 

252 SHADOWRUN
eA

Ares Citymaster: An urban riot-control vehicle, the Citymaster
carries and serves as a command post for ten riot cops. A roof
turret mounts a water cannon and a coaxial light machine gun.
The machine gun usually uses gel rounds. 500,000¥

Chrysler-Nissan Patrol-1: A ubiquitous urban patrol car, the
Chrysler-Nissan’s armored body features lock-down wheel
protection and slide-up window armor with firing ports. In
tight situations, the crew may release nausea gas from
ports located around the exterior. 100,000¥

GMC Beachcraft Patroller: A swift, lightly armed
patrol craft, the Patroller sees service with
coast guards and security corps worldwide. It
has two hardpoints. 750,000¥

GMC Riverine: A popular commercial patrol boat,
the Riverine relies on wa-
ter jets rather than pro-
pellers, making it an aren
excellent shallow-wa- “
ter craft with superb
maneuverability. It
has four hardpoints. 75,000¥

Northrup PRC-42 Wasp: This single-man rotor-
craft was designed for police and military
service. The craft is very stealthy in that the
pilot can cut power to the rotors some distance
away and descend safely on autorotation effect
alone. Combat support variants are beginning to
appear. Nicknamed Yellowjackets, they carry
one or two hardpoints. 220,000¥ for standard
model, 280,000¥ for Yellowjacket

VECTORED THRUST

These craft are too fuel-inefficient to be
practical for any user but the military and
high-threat corporate operations.

Federated Boeing Eagle: A vectored-
thrust aircraft designed for air
superiority, it has entered lim-
ited commercial service. It has
two assault cannon in its nose
and six hardpoints. Restricted

DRONES

Surveillance Drone

Many remotely piloted vehicles are available in surveillance,
spotter, and weapons-carrier modes. Though operable by any
trained user, these vehicles function most efficiently when con-
trolled by a rigger, to whom the feedback is as innate as his sense
of balance. Remotes have autopilots and may function indepen-
dently for short periods, but only at risk to the vehicles, as the
autopilots can rarely cope with novel occurrences. Drones and
remotes do not automatically come with rigger or remote gear
installed.

    
    

  
   

Surveillance Drone: This rotor aircraft carries thermographic and
low-light video scanners. It can be equipped for direct data
transmission, or it can store images for later recovery. 10,000¥

Spotter Drone: This winged, stealth aircraft carries equipment
similar to that of the surveillance drone. The spotter is designed
for longer missions with increased loiter times. Recovery is
more difficult, though, because the craft needs a runway or a

catch net to avoid a crash on return. 15,000¥

Hunter: This is a designation for armed versions of
surveillance or spotter drones. They carry two

firmpoints. 20,000¥
Patrol Vehicle: This tracked ground vehicle
performs perimeter patrol and defense. These

remotes carry one firmpoint, one hardpoint,
and armor. The sensor

oy

— _ equipment usually
ia . consists of only ther-
——aameniel mographic receptors.

10,000¥

VEHICLE WEAPONS

Autocannon: This is a light cannon with
autoloader. Single-shot firing only. 12,000¥
Launcher: This small launcher uses the same
missiles as a shoulder-fired launcher. 15,000¥
Water Cannon: A high-pressure projector, it always
» fires on “autofire” (10 shots an action) and suffers
¢

no recoil penalty. The Damage Code Is on human
~ scale, but any hit requires the target to make a

  

Strength Test (Target Number 5) or be knocked

over. If the weapon's pump is connected to a

water source, it does not need to “reload.”
20,000¥

RIGGER GEAR

  
 
 

Remote Adaptation: Any vehicle can
be adapted for remote control. The
cost for this is equal to 2,500¥

times the Body of the vehicle.
Vehicle Adaptation: Any vehicle
can be adapted for rigger con-
trol. The cost is 2,800¥, plus rigging the vehicle

for remote control.

Remote Control Deck: This portable control deck allows the
remote control ofa vehicle through a radio link. This control link
is subject to disruption by jammers and atmospheric condi-
tions. The deck has a video screen to display the output from
a vehicle-mounted camera. It also has a keyboard and a set of
switches, dials, and joysticks to manipulate the vehicle's
function. Each slave port allows the control of one drone or
remote vehicle. Variant decks allow the control of building
systems and other devices. Such systems are often hardwired,
rather than broadcast.

   

 

SHADOWRUN 253
WEAPONS

MELEE WEAPONS
Concealability

Edged Weapons
Katana

Knife

Sword

Pole Arms/Staffs
Pole Arm

Staff

Clubs

Club

Sap

Stun Baton
Whips/Fialls
Monofilament Whip
Unarmed

PROJECTILE WEAPONS
Concealability

Bows
Standard Bow
Arrows
Crossbows
Light
Medium
Heavy

Bolts

Throwing Weapons
Non-Aerodynamic
Throwing Knife
Aerodynamic
Shuriken

FIREARMS

Pistols

Hold-Out

Streetline Special
Walther Palm Pistol
Light

Beretta Model 101T
Colt American L36
Fichetti Security 500
Fichetti Security 500a

254 SHADOWRUN

Pan
EQUIPMENT TABLE

Damage Weight

(STR+ 3)M
(STR)L
(STR + 2)M

(STR)S
(STR + 2)M Stun

(STR + 1)M Stun
(STR + 2)M Stun
6S Stun

10S
(STR)M Stun

Str. Min. Damage Weight

(STRMin+2)M_ 1
As bow

6L
6M
8S
As crossbow

Ammunition Mode

Damage

Availability

4/48 hrs
2/4 hrs
3/24 hrs

4/48 hrs
3/24 hrs

2/6 hrs
2/6 hrs
3/36 hrs

24/14 days

Availability
3/36 hrs
3/36 hrs
4/36 hrs
5/36 hrs

6/36 hrs
5/36 hrs

2/24 hrs

2/24 hrs

Weight

Cost $= Street

500¥

500¥
50¥

10¥
10¥
750¥

3,000¥

100¥ x Str. Min.
10¥

300¥

500¥

750¥
5¥

Availability

2/12 hrs
3/12 hrs

3/12 hrs
3/12 hrs
3/12 hrs
3/12 hrs

Index

2
f5
1

 
Concealability Ammunition Mode

Heavy Pistols

Ares Predator SA
Ares Viper Slivergun

Browning Max-Power SA
Remington Roomsweeper SA
Ruger Super Warhawk SS
Tasers

Defiance Super Shock SA
Submachine Guns

AK-97 SMG/Carbine SA/BF/FA
Heckler & Koch HK227 SA/BF/FA
HK227-S SA/BF
Uzi Ill BF
Rifles

Sport Rifles

Remington 750 SA
Remington 950 ( SA
Sniper Rifles

Ranger Arms SM-3 SA
Shotguns

Defiance T-250 SA
Enfield AS-7 SA/BF
Assault Rifles

AK-97 3 SA/BF/FA
AK-98 (w/grenade launcher) 2 SA/BF/FA
FN HAR SA/BF/FA
Grenade Launcher

Generic Under-Barrel SS
Light Machine Guns

Ingram Valiant BF/FA

Heavy Weapons

Assault Cannon

Generic MMG

Generic HMG —_
Missle/Rocket Launcher
Multi-Launcher —

ROCKET/MISSILE TABLE
Intelligence

Rockets
Anti-Personnel
Anti-Vehicle
High-Explosive
Missiles
Anti-Personnel
Anti-Vehicle
High-Explosive

Damage Weight

9M
9S(f)
9M
9S(f)
10M

10S
6M
7M

7M
6M

8S
8M
8M
8M

grenade

7s

Availability

8/14 days
8/14 days
8/14 days

12/14 days
12/14 days
12/14 days

2.25

2
2

25

4.5

6

4.5

+2 kg

9

Cost

1,000¥
2,000¥
1,500¥

2,500¥
5,000¥
3, 750%

Availability

3/24 hrs
3/48 hrs
3/24 hrs
3/24 hrs
3/24 hrs

5/24 hrs
5/3 days
4/24 hrs

10/7 days
4/24 hrs

3/24 hrs
3/24 hrs
12/7 days

3/24 hrs
8/8 days

3/36 hrs
8/4 days
4/48 hrs
8/4 days
6/5 days
16/14 days
14/14 days

18/18 days

12/14 days

Street
Index

Zz
2
2

 

450¥
600¥
450¥
300¥
300¥

1,000¥
800¥
1,500¥

1,200¥
600¥

600¥
800¥
4,000¥

500¥
1 ,000¥

700¥
2,500¥
1,200¥
1,700¥
1,500¥
6,500¥
2,500¥
4,000¥

8,000¥

SHADOWRUN 255
AMMUNITION, PER 10 SHOTS
Concealability* Damage Weight
Assault Cannon 3 As weapon 1.25
Belt 100 yeah, right — 12.5
Explosive Rounds 8 See rules tS
Flechette Rounds See rules a
Gel Rounds See rules 29
Regular Ammo As weapon
Stun Rounds See rules
Taser Dart Special
*—] Concealability per extra 10 rounds of ammo
**Belted ammo: add rounds/100 to Availability

8
8
8
8

FIREARM ACCESSORIES

Mount Concealability Rating

Availability**

Weight

Cost Street
450¥
4,250¥
50¥
100¥
30¥
20¥
100¥
50¥

5/3 days
6/3 days
3/36 hrs
3/36 hrs
4/48 hrs
2/24 hrs
4/48 hrs
6/36 hrs

Availability

Bipod

Concealable Holster

Gas Vent II

Gas Vent III

Gyro Mount, Standard

Gyro Mount, Deluxe

Imaging Scopes
Low-Light
Magnification 1
Magnification 2
Magnification 3
Thermographic

Laser Sights

Shock Pads

Silencer

Smart Goggles

Smartgun, internal

Smartgun, external

Sound Suppresser

Spare Clips

Tripod
*See text, p. 241

EXPLOSIVES

Concealability

Grenades
Defensive
Concussion
Mini-grenade (all)
Offensive

256 SHADOWRUN

Under
Barrel
Barrel

Top/under

Barrel

Under

Damage

10S
12M Stun
As grenade
10S

Weight

2 6/12 hrs

ut 2/24 hrs
5 2/24 hrs
15 2/24 hrs
4/48 hrs

8 4/48 hrs

25 3/36 hrs
25 3/36 hrs
3/36 hrs
3/36 hrs
3/36 hrs
6/36 hrs
2/24 hrs
4/48 hrs
3/36 hrs
4/48 hrs
6/48 hrs
2/24 hrs
10/12 hrs

Availability

4/4 days
5/4 days
8/4 days
4/4 days

 
Commercial Explosives, Per Kilo
Concealability Weight Availability

Commercial 6 1 6/48 hrs
Plastic, Compound IV 1 8/48 hrs
Plastic, Compound XiIl 1 10/48 hrs
Accessories
Radio Detonator : 4/48 hrs
Timer : 4/48 hrs

CLOTHING AND ARMOR
Concealability Ballistic Impact Weight Availability

Armor Clothing 10 2/36 hrs
Armor Jacket 6 3/36 hrs
Armor Vest 1Z 2/36 hrs
Vest with Plates 10 3/36 hrs
Lined Coat 8 2/24 hrs

HEAVY ARMOR

Partial Suit 10 + Body 8/10 days 10,000¥
Full Suit 15 + Body 16/14 days 20,000¥
Helmet — 12/14 days 200¥

LEATHER
Real Always
Synthetic Always

CLOTHING

Ordinary Clothing Always
Fine Clothing Always
Tres Chic Always

SURVEILLANCE AND SECURITY

VISION ENHANCERS
Concealability Magnification Weight Availability Cost Street
Index
Binoculars 50x 1 Always 100¥ 8
Low-Light = 4/48 hrs +200¥ 1.25
Thermographic — 4/48 hrs +250¥ 1.25
Goggles 4/48 hrs 1,500¥ 1.5
Low-Light 6/48 hrs +500¥ 2
Thermographic 6/48 hrs +700¥ 2

 

SHADOWRUN 257
COMMUNICATIONS
Concealability
Micro-Camcorder 8
Micro-Recorder 9
Micro-Transceiver 18

SURVEILLANCE MEASURES
Concealability

Data Codebreaker 2

Dataline Tap

Laser Microphone

Shotgun Microphone

Signal Locator

Tracking Signal

Voice Identifier

Availability
6/48 hrs
6/48 hrs
6/48 hrs

Availability
Rating/10 days
Rating/8 days
Rating/48 hrs
Rating/36 hrs
Rating/48 hrs
Rating/72 hrs
Rating/72 hrs

SURVEILLANCE COUNTERMEASURES

Concealability Weight

Bug Scanner 3
Data Encryption System 2
Dataline Scanner 2
Jammer 2
6
3

Voice Mask
White Noise Generator

SECURITY DEVICES
Concealablility
Identification Scanners
Thumbprint
Palmprint
Retinal
Maglocks
PANICBUTTON Hook-Up
Maglock Passkey (illegal)
Restraints
Metal 3
Plastic 3
Squealer 4

SURVIVAL GEAR

Concealabllity Weight
Chemsuit 1
Pressure Regulator
Ration Bars (10 Days)
Respirator
Survival Kit

Weight

258 SHADOWRUN

Availability
Rating/48 hrs
Rating/14 days
Rating/14 days
Rating / 72 hrs
Rating/72 hrs
Rating/72 hrs

Availability

Rating/72 hrs
(Rating +1)/72 hrs
(Rating + 2)/72 hrs

Rating/72 hrs

Call Lone Star

(Rating x 2)/10 days

4/48 hrs
4/48 hrs
6/72 hrs

Availability
(Rating/Rating) days
6/48 hrs
2/48 hrs
4/48 hrs
2/48 hrs

Cost
10,000¥ x Rating
5,000¥ x Rating
1,500¥ x Rating
1,000¥ x Rating
1,000¥ x Rating
100¥ x Concealability
2,000¥ x Rating

Cost Street Index
500¥ x Rating 15
1,000¥ x Rating 2
100¥ x Rating 2
1 ,000¥ x Rating
3,000¥ x Rating
1,500¥ x Rating

Cost

200¥ x Rating
300¥ x Rating
1 ,000¥ x Rating
100¥ x Rating
1,000¥
10,000¥ x Rating

50¥

Cost
200¥ x Rating
250¥
30¥
500¥
100¥

 
WORKING GEAR

Concealability Weight Availability Cost* Street

Kit 3 5 5/48 hrs 500¥ 2
Shop — — 8/72 hrs 5,000¥ 3
Facility _ _— 14/7 days 100,000¥ 4
*General Work (Base Cost). Vehicle Work (2 x Cost). Electronic/Computer/Cyberware Work (3 x Cost).

LIFESTYLE

ENTERTAINMENT

Concealability Weight Availability
Music
Disk/Chip Always
Playback Unit Always
Quad Speakers Always
Video
Disk/Chip Always
Recorder Package 6/48 hrs
Screen Always
Transmission Unit 8/7 days
Simsense
Player Unit Always
Program Chip Always
Portable Recorder 7/7 days

ELECTRONICS
Concealability Weight Availability Cost

Telecom _ 15 Always Memory Cost x 1.5
Portable Phones
Wrist Models — Always 1,000¥

With Flip-Up Screen — Always 1,500¥
Handset Unit 1 Always 500¥
Earplug Unit Always 1,000¥
Booster Pack Always 500¥
Pocket Secretary ; Always 3,000¥
Personal Computers
Table Top Always Memory Cost
Pocket Always Memory Cost x 5
Wrist Always Memory Cost x 20
Printer Always 100¥
Computer Memory (Non-Cyber) NA Always 20¥ x Mp
Data Display Systems (w/max memory capacity)
Data Unit (1,000 Mp) 3 Always Memory Cost
Headset (500 Mp) 4 Always Memory Cost x 2
Heads-Up Display (200 Mp) 6/7 days Memory Cost x 10

 

SHADOWRUN 259
CYBERTECH
HEADWARE

Communications
Chipjack

Datajack

Radio

Radio Receiver
Telephone

Essence Cost

GEAR

Availability Cost

ee 3/72 hrs
si Always
3 2/24 hrs
4 2/24 hrs
5 3/24 hrs

1,000¥
1,000¥
4,000¥
2,000¥
3,700¥

Ears

Cyber Replacement
Modification
Cosmetic Modification
Damper

High Frequency

Low Frequency
Recorder

Eyes

Cyber Replacement
Camera

Cosmetic Modification
Flare Compensation
Low-Light

Retinal Duplication (illegal)
Thermographic

4,000¥
2,000¥
1,000¥
3,500¥
3,000¥
3,000¥
7,000¥

2/24 hrs
2/24 hrs
2/24 hrs
4/48 hrs
4/48 hrs
4/48 hrs
8/48 hrs

2/24 hrs
6/24 hrs
2/24 hrs
5/48 hrs 2,000¥
4/36 hrs 3,000¥
12/7 days 50,000¥+
4/36 hrs 3,000¥

5,000¥
5,000¥
1,000¥

INTERNALS
Essence Cost Cost
500,000¥
5,000¥
1,000¥
1,000¥
1,000¥
Mp x 100¥

Availability
20/14 days
6/36 hrs
6/36 hrs
3/24 hrs
4/36 hrs
2/24 hrs

Cortex Bomb (illegal)
Data Filter
Data Lock
Datasoft Link
Display Link
Memory
Skillsofts
ActiveSoft
DataSoft
KnowSoft
LinguaSoft

6/4 days
Varies
5/4 days
5/36 hrs

Mp x 100¥
Varies with data
Mp x 150¥
Mp x 100¥

 

260 SHADOWRUN
BODYWARE

Fingertip Compartment

Hand Razors

Muscle Replacement
(Maximum Rating 4)

Retractable Razors

Retractable Spur

Smartlink

Spur

Voice Modulator
Increased Volume
Tonal Shift
Secondary Pattern (illegal)
Playback

Dermal Plating

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Filtration Systems

Air

Blood

Ingested Toxin

Limbs

Simple Replacement

Cyber Limb
Increased Strength
Built-In Smartlink
Built-In Device

Skillwires

Rating 1-3

Rating 4-6

Rating 7-9

Vehicle Control Rig

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Wired Reflexes

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

rN

2

3
1
1.5

Rating + 10
Rating + 5
Rating + 5

1
1

25

Availability
3/24 hrs
3/72 hrs

4/4 days
5/72 hrs
5/72 hrs
3/36 hrs
3/72 hrs
2/24 hrs
2/24 hrs
2/24 hrs
6/7 days
4/48 hrs

4/12 days
4/12 days
4/12 days

6/4 days
6/4 days
6/4 days

4/48 hrs
4/4 days
6/4 days
6/4 days
Varies

4/10 days
5/10 days
12/20 days

6/48 hrs
8/48 hrs
8/48 hrs

4/8 days
4/8 days
8/14 days

Cost
3,000¥
4,500¥

Rating x 20,000¥
9,000¥
11,500¥
2,500¥
7,000¥
45,000¥
10,000¥
25,000¥
50,000¥
40,000¥

=—N = = = ee ee ee ee

6,000¥
15,000¥
45,000¥

Rating x 15,000¥
Rating x 10,000¥
Rating x 10,000¥

50,000¥
100,000¥
+ (Rating x 150,000¥)
+2,500¥
+ (4 x Normal Cost)

Rating x 10,000¥
Rating x 100,000¥
Rating x 1,000,000¥

12,000¥
60,000¥
300,000¥

55,000¥
165,000¥
500,000¥

 

SHADOWRUN 261
 

CYBERDECKS AND PROGRAMS

CYBERDECKS

Radio Shack PCD-100
Allegiance Alpha
Sony CTY-360

Fuchi Cyber-4

Fuchi Cyber-6

Fuchi Cyber-7
Fairlight Excalibur

Radio Shack PCD-100
Allegiance Alpha
Sony CTY-360

Fuchi Cyber-4

Fuchi Cyber-6

Fuchi Cyber-7
Fairlight Excalibur

Persona
2

Availability

4/7 days
4/7 days
4/7 days
4/7 days
6/7 days
10/7 days
22/7 days

Cyberdeck System Additions

Hitcher Jack
Off-line Storage
Vidscreen Display
Response Increase
Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Rating

1-3
4-6
7-9
10+

3/7 days
6/7 days

262 SHADOWRUN

12/14 days
24/30 days

Availability
2/48 hrs
2/24 hrs
2/24 hrs
6/48 hrs

8/72 hrs
12/7 days

Cost

Size x

Hardening Memory

0 10

10

50

100

100

200

500

Cost

6,800¥
12,600¥
99, 400¥
121, 400¥
334,500¥
1,112,100¥
5,529,600¥

Cost

MPCP x 100¥
1¥x Mp
100¥

(MPCP x MPCP) x 100¥
(MPCP x MPCP) x 400¥
(MPCP x MPCP) x 900¥

PROGRAM COSTS AND AVAILABILITY
Persona Programs
Availability

Street

100¥

Size x 500¥

Size x

1,000¥

Size x 5,000¥

Storage

50
50
100
500
500
1,000

PROGRAM SIZES

Persona Programs
Bod
Evasion
Masking
Sensors
Utility Programs
Analyze
Armor
Attack
Browse
Deception
Decrypt
Evaluate
Medic
Mirrors
Relocate
Restore
Shield

Sift

Sleaze
Slow
Smoke

Availability

2/7 days
4/7 days
8/14 days
16/100 days

Size (in Mp)

(Rating x Rating
(Rating x Rating
(Rating x Rating
(Rating x Rating

x3
x3
KZ
xz

(Rating x Rating) x 3
(Rating x Rating) x 3
(Rating x Rating) x 2
(Rating x Rating)
(Rating x Rating) x 2
(Rating x Rating) x 2
(Rating x Rating) x 2
(Rating x Rating) x 4
(Rating x Rating) 3
(Rating x Rating) x 2
(Rating x Rating) x 3
(Rating x Rating) x 4
(Rating x Rating)
(Rating x Rating) x 3
(
(

Rating x Rating) x 4
Rating x Rating) x 2

Cost

Size x 100¥
Size x 200¥
Size x 500¥
Size x 1,000¥

 
BIOTECH

Medkit

Medkit Supplies

Stabilization Unit
Deluxe Unit

DocWagon™ Contract

Basic Service

Gold Service

Platinum Service

Availability
2/24 hrs
2/24 hrs
12/1 mth
16/1 mth

On payment
On payment
On payment

Cost Street Index

200¥ LS

50¥ 1.5
10,000¥ 3
20,000¥ 3

5,000¥ per year
25,000¥ per year
50,000¥ per year

Slap Patches
Antidote Patch
Stimulant Patch Maximum 6
Trang Patch Maximum 10
Trauma Patch _

Maximum 8 6/72 hrs
2/24 hrs
4/48 hrs

4/48 hrs
MAGICAL EQUIPMENT

Availability
4/48 hrs
5/48 hrs
4/48 hrs
6/72 hrs
2/48 hrs
8/72 hrs

Rating x 50¥

Rating x 25¥

Rating x 20¥
500¥

Cost
Rating x 45,000¥
Rating x 75,000¥
Rating x 60,000¥
Rating x 105,000¥
45,000¥
[(Reach +1) x 100,000¥] +
Rating x 90,000¥

Specific Spell Focus
Spell Type Focus
Spirit Focus

Power Focus

Spell Lock
Weapon Foci

MAGICAL SUPPLIES

Availability
(Force)/24 hrs
(Rating)/24 hrs

Cost Street Index
Force x 1,000¥ 1
Rating x 500¥ 1

Elemental Conjuration Materials

Medicine Lodge Materials

Expendable Fetishes

Combat

Detection

Healing

Illusion

Manipulation

Hermetic Library (any magic skill)

Computer Media (disk)
Chip

Hardcopy

Reusable Fetishes

Combat

Detection

Healing

Illusion

Manipulation

Ritual Sorcery Materials

Detection

Healing

Illusion

Manipulation

2/24 hrs 20¥
2/24 hrs 5¥
2/24 hrs 50¥
2/24 hrs 10¥
2/24 hrs 30¥

(Rating)/7 days
(Rating)/7 days
(Rating)/14 days

(Rating x Rating) x 1,000¥
(Rating x Rating) x 1,200¥
(Rating x Rating) x 2,000¥

3/24 hrs
3/24 hrs
3/24 hrs
3/24 hrs
3/24 hrs

200¥
50¥
500¥

300¥

3/24 hrs
3/24 hrs
3/24 hrs
3/24 hrs

100¥ x spell Force

500¥ x spell Force

100¥ x spell Force
1,000¥ x spell Force

 

SHADOWRUN 263
1 wANi

VEHICLES

Note: Vehicles generally have an Availability equal to Cost/ 10,000. The base time is equal to 1/2 the Availability (round
down) in days. Street Index is .75 for Costs less than 10,000¥, 1 for up to 50,000¥, and 2 for more than 50,000¥.

Handling Speed Body Armor Signature Pilot Cost
GROUND
Cars
Chrysler-Nissan Jackrabbit 25/75 15,000¥
Eurocar Westwind 2000 70/210 100,000¥
Ford Americar 35/105 20,000¥
Mitsubishi Nightsky 45/120 250,000¥
Mitsubishi Runabout 25/75 10,000¥
Toyota Elite 40/120 125,000¥
Bikes
Dodge Scoot 20/60 4 2,000¥
Harley Scorpion 50/150 15,000¥
Yamaha Rapier 65/195 0 1 10,000¥

HOVERCRAFT .
Chrysler-Nissan Gi 2a 40/120 50,000¥

BOATS

Motorboats

Aztech Nightrunner
Electric Running

Samuvani Chriscraft Otter

Sailboats

Sendanko Marlin

AIRCRAFT

Winged Planes

Cessna C750 340/680
Lear-Cessna Platinum | 4 400/550
Rotor Craft

Ares Dragon 140/320
Federated Boeing Commuter 140/320
Hughes Airstar 190/260
Hughes WK-2 Stallion 170/250

MILITARY AND RESTRICTED ISSUE .

EFA variants 3 950/1,900

Thunderbirds

GMC Banshee 3 650/ 1,000

Security Vehicles

Ares Citymaster 30/120

Chrysler Nissan Patrol 60/180

GMC Beachcraft Patroller 55/165

GMC Riverine 30/90

Northrup PRC-42B Wasp 65/130
PRC-44B Yellowjacket 65/130

Vectored Thrust

Federated Boeing Eagle 900/1,800

 

264 SHADOWRUN
7 N

REMOTES AND DRONES

Hunter Drone
Patrol Vehicle
Spotter Drone
Surveillance Drone
* See vehicle description

VEHICLE WEAPONS
Ammunition
Autocannon 10 (c)
Launcher 6 (b)
Water Cannon 20

RIGGER GEAR

Availability
Remote Control Gear 4/72 hrs
Vehicle Control Gear 4/7 days
Rating
Remote Control Deck Slave Ports

Oh. a
Ff pm

-10%
35/70
35/100
70

Damage Availability Street Index

12D 12/14 days
As rocket 15/14 days
6M Stun 15/14 days

Cost Street Index
2,500¥ x Body 2
2,800¥ 2
Weight Cost Availability
2 x Rating 5,000¥ x Rating 4/72 hrs

2

Street Index

2

 

SHADOWRUN 265
CHAPTER FIFTEEN

 

When the politicians gave away the damn country to the
Indians, I didn’t know who to kill first, the politicians or the
Indians.

—Humanis Policlub member

he northwestern quarter of North America is bordered by the Pacific Ocean on the
| west and mountain ranges that divide the coast from the rest of the continent on
_ the east. In between is a diverse assortment of lesser features, including plateaus,
river systems, valleys, and smaller mountain ranges. Indeed, the Northwest offers
almost every type of environment found elsewhere on the continent. Glaciers and
deserts, temperate rainforests and badlands, all exist within the area.

Since the Treaty of Denver in 2018, much has changed in the western half of
North America. Under the protection of the Native American Nations (NAN), much
of the land has been returned to its earlier, natural state. The lowered population
and the influx of the Awakened has resulted in a landscape vastly different from the
shrinking wilderness of the late 20th century. Tall trees stand unmolested by
loggers, sheltering strong populations of both natural and paranatural animals.
Towns and villages are vanishing under the new growth as the land renews itself.

Politically, the Northwest is no less changed. Several sovereign nations now
exist there, with little remaining of the former jurisdictions of the United States and
Canadian governments. Today the dominant powers of the region are the various
states of the Native American Nations and the elven realm of Tir Tairngire. In and
among these large political entities are smaller independent states, most notably,
the independent Native American nation of Tsimshian.

TREATY OF DENVER

 

The Treaty of Denver stipulated that the Seattle-Everett-Tacoma metroplex was
to remain part of the United States of America as the City-State of Seattle. The
Sovereign Tribal Council accepted this demand, apparently as much because of the

 

266 SHADOWRUN


 

SHADOWRUN 267
THE MODERN NORTHWEST

Seattle area’s importance as a port as for the difficulties involved in
returning the area to its pristine condition. When the United
Canadian and American States were split by the secession of the
Confederated American States, Seattle remained with the UCAS.

As the last, true city in the Northwest, the Seattle-Everett-
Tacoma sprawl has become the principal concentration of UCAS
governmental power in the region. This urban complex remains an
important center of commerce and a vital center for trade with
members of NAN, Tir Taimgire, and the nations of the Pacific Rim.
Itis a lonely city, its former neighboring states having shrunk in size,
been abandoned, or been relinquished to Native American, Awak-
ened, or corporate landholders. Though the city-state remains an
official part of the UCAS, these ties grow more tenuous by the year
as Seattle’s local government finds the attractions of independence
more and more seductive.

TRIBAL LANDS

Most of the Northwest is under the control of assorted members
of the Native American Nations, a loosely knit group of independent
nations. Though all are officially governed by the Sovereign Tribal
Council, few of the members submit without question to the man-
dates of the STC. As each member seems increasingly intent on
following its own path, the STC has become little more than an
ineffectual referee in the Council's internal squabbling. The vast,
occult power wielded by the shamans of the Great Ghost Dance under
the direction of the STC seems a thing of the past.

The nature of leadership varies within the member-nations.
The Salish-Shidhe Council, forexample, is a loose collection of tribal
clusters with no formal governmental structure. Though each chief
acts as a sovereign lord on his tribal lands, he is not an all-powerful
feudal dictator. The Council Chiefs rule by example and persuasion.
Counter-argument is both frequent and expected, on the principle
that a chief unable to persuade others to his view should not speak
for his tribe. Dissenters are not only tolerated, they are respected for
their convictions. In some ways, the Salish-Shidhe represent more
of a consensus culture than the Japanese.

Other Council nations have other forms of government, rang-
ing from formal confederations like the Algonkian-Manitou Council
to businesslike corporate states like the Pueblo Corporate Council.

The Salish-Shidhe Council is one of the largest and wealthiest
tribal nations in the Northwest. The Council lands extend over most
of former Washington State. With the return of resources to the
tribes and land tenants, the Council has become custodian of the
region's lucrative mineral and timber resources.

The S-S Council represents Native Americans, metahumans
(predominantly elves), and combined tribes of the two or more
subspecies. There are also several tribes of pinkskins, the name
often used for non-Amerindians who have adopted the Indian
philosophies and objectives. Many of the combined tribes include
pinkskin members.

The S-S Council is one of two members of NAN to have a high
proportion of metahumans, as reflected by its name. “Salish” refers
to the dominant Native American tribes and “Shidhe” (pronounced
SHE-hee), the old Irish name for the fairy folk, signifies the metahuman
participation. The other nation in this group is the Algonkian-
Manitou Council.

 

Despite their often primitive appearance, most of the tribes are
well-educated and sophisticated. Their belief in living gently on the
land does not prevent them from using the most modem technology,
especially if it does not pollute or harm the environment. Paradoxi-
cally, the most backward of the S-S people are the pinkskins, who
reject all high technology and try to live as Indians did centuries ago.

TIR TAIRNGIRE

When most of what was formerly Oregon and portions of the
former states of California and Washington became independent of
all but elven rule, it caused a rift in the Sovereign Tribal Council, whose
members either opposed or favored the establishment of a separate
nation of metahumans. Meanwhile, the elves who emerged as the
leaders of the nascent state were establishing diplomatic ties through-
out the world. When Tir Taimgire was admitted to the United Nations
two years later, its sovereignty was established beyond a doubt.

Much of Tir Tairngire’s original population was native to the
Northwest. Metahumans, mostly elves and dwarves, migrated
from their homes to this new promised land, whose rulers offered
a home to metahumans from any nation. This influx of the Awak-
ened strengthened the claim of High Prince Lugh Surehand, Tir
Tairngire’s ruler, that his was the realm of magic.

The High Prince is an absolute monarch, but he is advised by
the Council of Princes, whose members are all absolute rulers of
smaller domains within the realm. There are 15 seats in the Council,
most of them held by elves. Two members are dwarfs and two are
dragons. One sasquatch and one ork also have seats.

The borders of Tir Tairngire are closed. Visas are issued occa-
sionally, with favoritism shown toward metahumans, but the
realm’s boundaries and airspace are heavily patrolled and guarded
by technology, magic, and, it is rumored, dragons. Few succeed in
crossing illegally. Most who try are dumped near their point of
entry, with little or no memory of their experiences and no desire
to return. Immigration is now discouraged, except among those of
elven blood.

OTHER NEIGHBORS

Unconnected, fiercely independent enclaves of orks and other
minority groups inhabit the spectacular mountain ranges of the
Northwest. Most of these are malcontents among the metahumans
and their “normal” sympathizers. They are so economically weak
that they must often resort to stealing from their neighbors.

The Tsimshian nation seceded from the North American Na-
tions in 2035. Its leaders called the move a protest against the elven
secession, but it later was learned that they had long planned to
break from NAN. They were at odds with the STC, seeking a
stronger stance against technology and advocating the removal of
all Native American influence from Council lands.

A region of the northern Rockies is the domain of the Great
Dragon, Dunkelzahn. The beast itself lairs in Lake Louise and com-
mands tribute from the surrounding areas, which were once a
Canadian parkland. The region’s natural wonders still draw tourists by
the thousands. They are welcome because their nuyen and credit
transfers go mostly into the dragon's coffers. The place no longer
offers its former rough-and-ready pioneer atmosphere, nor that of the

 

268 SHADOWRUN
THE MODERN NORTHWEST

jet-setter’s playground. It is now like a medieval fiefdom out of
fantasy, with the lake’s world-famous chateau as its centerpiece.
Visitors are advised that, in this fantasy realm, the dragons always win.

STATUS OF SEATTLE

The metroplex of Seattle exists in the midst of the Salish-Shidhe
Council as an enclave of another sovereign nation. This gives it a status
similar to that of Berlin during the Cold War, except that as a major
port, Seattle receives goods from all over the Pacific basin. The
intemational ambiance within the metroplex notwithstanding, the
city remains relatively isolated from the rest of the continent. All land
routes to and from Seattle pass through either Native American or
elven lands. Air travel over those areas is restricted to carefully
specified and monitored routes.

TRIBES

This section presents brief profiles of tribes local to the Seattle
area.

SALISH

Predominant Race: Human

Land: Most of the region west and south of Puget Sound

Chief: Harold Gray Bear

Chief Shaman: Leaping Salmon

Principal Commercial Activities: Fishing, power generation, and
tourism

Philosophy:

The Salish are, by tradition, traders, seeking only to live off the
commercial opportunities provided by the land. At the same time,
they carefully monitor the latest technological advances for any-
thing that can be turned to their advantage.

This tribe is the biggest and most influential group within the
S-S Council. They are responsible for ensuring that the Seattle
enclave adheres to all of the Council's regulations. To this end, they
maintain a standing Ranger Force of elite troopers. Regular Coast
and Border Patrols supplement high-tech monitor systems.

SINSEARACH

Predominant Race: Elf

Land: Southwest of Seattle, including former Mount Rainier Na-
tional Park

Chief: Lady Gillian Morningsong, a Coyote shaman

Chief Magician: Lord Ryan Highbrow, a mage

Principal Commercial Activities: Natural forest products, crafts,
tourism, and animal husbandry

Philosophy:

Yeaming for the long-lost days of the primeval forest, the
Sinsearach seek to preserve and protect the land as it returns to its
natural state. They have little or no use for modem technology,
preferring to rely on magic and alliance with other Awakened beings.

 

 

 

The Sinsearach are the largest and most organized grouping of
the elven tribes within the S-S Council. The tribe’s strong political and
magical power helped preserve its influence after the majority of
elves in the northwest broke away from the Native American Nations
and its Sovereign Tribal Council to claim the land of Tir Taimgire as
their own.

MAKAH

Predominant Race: Human

Land: Olympic Peninsula in the northwestern corner of former
Washington State

Chief: George Lodgepole

Chief Shaman: Black Otter

Principal Commercial Activities: Forestry

Philosophy:

The Makah rejoice at the retum of the land. They have taken up
where the white man left off in using the forests. Unlike their
predecessors, however, they take only what they need in order to
ensure the continual availability of their wealth. They will use either
technology or magic to accomplish a task in the best way possible.

Because of the apportionment of the land, the Makah are
powerful despite their small population. Their control of the south-
em shore of the Juan de Fuca strait gave them several former USN
facilities, including the abandoned Trident submarine base.

CASCADE CROW
Predominant Race: Human
Land: Most of the territory east of Seattle as far as the peaks of the
Cascades
Chief: Frederick Eye-Like-Eagle
Chief Shaman: Red Buffalo Woman
Principal Commercial Activities: Livestock (horses and cattle) and
agriculture
Philosophy:

The Cascade Crow are strong advocates of the removal of the
Anglo and Asian presence in the Northwest, thus cultivating a
strong Plains Revival.

CASCADE ORK

Predominant Race: Ork

Land: Small holding in the Cascades just north of the eastern route
out of Seattle

Chief: Pawl Shaggy Mountain (troll)

Chief Shaman: Skink (ork)

Principal Commercial Activities: Raising sheep, mining, and occa-
sional raiding of traffic using the East road

Philosophy:

The Cascade Orks are a reluctant and troublesome member of
the S-S Council who dismiss any allegations of illegal activities as
the actions of renegades and others not associated with the tribe.

The tribe is involved in smuggling contraband, and has been
repeatedly identified as an accomplice in offering rest and refitting
for illegal smuggling runs through the Cascades.

 

SHADOWRUN 269
Gide ai aa

 

We don’t have any social problems here that a couple of
thousand troops won't solve.
—Marilyn Schultz, Governor of Seattle

he information in this chapter is excerpted from Fromor’s Guide to the Northwest-
ern American Continent: 2051. The author gratefully acknowledges permission to
reprint these sections on Seattle.

Though no longer the fair playground it was in the twentieth century, Seattle is
a vital and vigorous city. Today’s Seattle sprawls from Everett to Tacoma,
encompassing 1,600 square miles along the coast of Puget Sound. It remains an
outpost of the United Canadian and American States, so travelers need not concern
themselves about passports or duration of stay as long as they remain within the
city limits. Hemmed in by the Salish-Shidhe Council, Seattle is an active port city,
still very much the gateway to the Orient.

GETTING TO SEATTLE

 

For the rich or corporate traveler, regularly scheduled flights arrive and depart
daily to and from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport. Customs check-in is
efficient, and the ordinary traveler should experience only minor delays as all
luggage is checked for contraband. Clearing the airport after arrival generally takes
about an hour. SeaTac boasts a low rating for violent incidents.

SeaTac has been capable of handling transorbital flights to other major airports
since the city council sanctioned expansion in 2042. Service in this area is not
regular, and so the traveler is advised to check with the airport or his licensed
transport agent for schedules and availability of seats.

Seattle’s harbor handles more than 1,800 ships per year. Travelers wishing to
exit the Seaport Commercial Zone are expected to present themselves at the Port

 

270 SHADOWRUN
SEATTLE
 

SHADOWRUN 271
of Entry Complex within three hours of arrival at the dock.

The Salish-Shidhe Council has sanctioned three major ground
routes, known as the North, South, and East Roads into the free city
of Seattle. The North and South Roads follow the track of old U.S.
Interstate Highway 5. The East Road is the old I-90 and leads to the
Yakima Trading Center Complex at Ellensburg, where it joins with
1-82/84.

Alternate transport from California is available via Ressha
Corporation's sealed-tube maglev-bullet train that links San Fran-
cisco with Seattle. This is the only passenger rail service to the city.
The service is regularly scheduled, but the frequent traveler can
expect occasional rescheduling due to breaks in the tube. The ride
is smooth and fast, taking just over two hours, but none of the scenic
vistas of the northwest are on display. Even outside the restricted
lands of Tir Tairngire, the tube is opaque for technical reasons.

Travel outside the routes prescribed by the Salish-Shidhe
Council is not recommended. The Council reserves sovereignty to
restrict access to all lands under its governance. The Council’s
border and highway patrols are armed and operate under the
principle of “reasonable cause.”

GOVERNMENT

Seattle’s government is democratic. Like the rest of the UCAS,
the registered voters of Seattle make their choices known in
telecom elections held on the first Tuesday of November. Seattle is
noted for its vigorous, vociferous electoral campaigns.

The governor holds supreme executive power for a term of four
years. There is no limit to the number of terms a governor can serve.
The current governor, now in her fourth term, is the Honorable
Marilyn Schultz.

The governor is advised by a bicameral council, composed of
the Cabinet and the Congress. Cabinet members serve a six-year
term and form animmediate-action body. Congressmen serve two-
year terms. They promulgate laws with the approval of the council
and the governor, and serve as a review and ratification board for
gubernatorial and special executive orders. All members of the
council, except the non-voting Salish-Shidhe Council representa-
tive to the Cabinet, are elected.

All registered voters are subject to a city tax. Travel passes,
transit taxes, transient worker taxes, business licensing fees, and
donations make up the rest of the city’s income base. The city uses
these taxes to contract for essential services with independent
corporations. Some of the primary services and their contractors are:

Police Services: Lone Star Security Services

Fire Control: Franklin Associates, Inc.

Sanitation: Various district contractors

Public Works Maintenance: Shiawase Envirotech

Public Database: Renraku Computer Systems

Grid-Guide System: Sony Tech

Power: Gaeatronics (Salish-Shidhe Council), Shiawase Atomics

SEATTLE’S METROPLEX GUARD

As a city-state of the United Canadian and American States,
Seattle is entitled to the military protection of that nation. In
practice, the city-state is defended by the Metroplex Guard, the
bulk of which are recruited and trained locally, though the unit is

 

 

VITAL STATISTICS
Population: 3,000,000+
Human: 63%
Elf: 13%
Dwarf: 2%
Ork: 19%
Troll: 2%
Other: 1%
Population Density: 500+ per square kilometer
Per Capita Income: 24,500¥
Population Below Poverty Level: 32%
Persons Rated on Fortune’s Active Traders List: 1%
Persons of Corporate Affiliation: 52%
Hospitals: 51
Means of Commuting to Work:
Internal Combustion Vehicle: 2%
Grid-Guide Electric Vehicles, Individual: 41%
Grid-Guide Electric Vehicles, Group: 20%
Monorail Ring Riders: 23%
On-site Workers: 12%
Other: 2%
Felonious Crime Rate: 18 per 1,000 per annum
Education:
High School Equivalency: 54%
College Equivalency: 30%
Advanced Studies Certificates: 10%

 

officially part of the UCAS military. Seattle also benefits from its
location in the heart of the Salish-Shidhe Council lands, counting on
the Council and the NAN states to preserve stability in the region.

The Guard is a mechanized infantry force of three battalions and
an attached air defense company. Its soldiers are a mixture of full-
time professionals and part-time reservists. They are equipped with
antiquated vehicles and weapons that are outclassed by the various
corporate security and hireling police forces. Staff and field officers,
who are drawn from among UCAS officers, former mercenaries, and
political appointees, rotate through the three battalions of the
Seattle Guard, though the commanding colonel is a regular UCAS
officer. This system results in uneven troop quality and morale, a
problem aggravated by the Guard's part-time nature.

First Battalion maintains 15 Ares Citymasters, two of which are
modified as urban assault vehicles and a third as air defense. Second
Battalion operates with 15 standard Citymasters. Third Battalion is
air mobile, with ten modified Federated Boeing Commuter tilt-
rotors and a pair of Ares Dragons.

The Guard can be activated by either the governor or by
executive order of the city council, though such action must be
ratified by the city-state Congress within 48 hours. Should the
Congress disapprove of activation, the law provides for strict
sanctions against those responsible for the abuse. A full call-up of
UCAS forces would activate the Guard and place the commanding
colonel under direct military orders.

 

272 SHADOWRUN
SEATTLE

VISITOR INFORMATION

Any traveler who wishes to go outside the city limits must
apply for a transit pass. These “blue tickets” are issued by the Salish-
Shidhe Council and are good for a limited time. They can be
obtained at the Council Lodge, and must be prominently displayed
at all times by someone outside the city limits.

Any visitor seeking gainful employment must apply for a
temporary work card at city hall. The work permits are quite similar
to a citizen’s red card. They are striped with red and will accept all
payments rendered to the visitor, minus deductions of appropriate
city taxes.

Corporate cards, either gold or green, are honored at all
legitimate establishments throughout the city.

MEDICAL AID

Eight hospitals serve the Seattle area, all of which are linked
through the EmergencyAlert™ system. A variety of independent
medical corporations operate as well, offering choice of care as well
as overflow capability in the event of a major disaster. The roving
DocWagon™ is a common sight, as in most large cities.

LEGAL AID

Legal advice and representation is available through the North
American Defense Guild (NADG) at the following numbers:

General Public: 555-S5LAW

Special Hotlines:

Orks: 555-ORCS

Elves: 555-ELFS

Native Americans: 555-TRIB

PUBLIC DATANET

Library databanks, time, weather, local news services, and
general information are available at a nominal charge from the
Public Datanet. Renraku Corporation’s friendly and efficient experts
guide people through the datanet to whatever public information
they desire.

EMERGENCY SERVICES

Seattle’s police, fire, and rescue teams all subscribe to the
international standard PANICBUTTON system. Any Seiko (or com-
patible) wrist telecom puts a person in instant contact with the
system’s central clearing desk. Anyone not carrying a telecom can
use the bright yellow and red PANICBUTTON boxes scattered
throughout the city. It is, of course, both a federal and local offense
to use the system without demonstrable need.

GETTING AROUND SEATTLE

Despite its isolation from major highway grids, Seattle is
served by a fine intracity commuter grid. This computer-controlled,
limited-access system allows motorists to join their electric cars and
enjoy the freedom and convenience of directed-control travel. The
system has the additional benefit of minimal power costs, as the
cost of power drawn from the system is included in the motorist’s
use license. Previous reports in other travel guides notwithstand-
ing, Seattle’s first-class, high-speed lanes are well-insulated and

 

 

 

their power connections safe. Near the grid, there are power-
recharging stations at many commercial establishments and all
public parking facilities.

Public roads are well-maintained and full of electric cars, bikes,
and buses. Petrochem vehicles are also common in the area, but
strict anti-pollution standards are in effect, with such vehicles
reserved for important business or occasions when high perfor-
mance is required.

Seattle’s famed monorail, once limited to runs between Seattle
Center and the downtown district, has recently been refurbished
and expanded. It now runs on a ring track and serves the Renraku
Arcology and other residential buildings. Visitors may experience
some delay in receiving a travel pass, as the monorail is popular
with commuters and is often filled to capacity with regular travelers.

The Renraku Arcology, like other corporate structures, main-
tains its own landing pads for intracity and city-airport service of
rotor and tilt-rotor aircraft. Unlike the others, Renraku offers three
public pads with full storage, refueling, and repair facilities. Charges
are reasonable and service is swift and reliable.

ENTERTAINMENT AND MEDIA

Seattle’s popular special events include the summer Seafair
Festival, the Gold Cup motorboat races on Lake Washington, and
the annual Salish-Shidhe Council's Horse Exposition at the former
Longacres Racecourse, south of Seattle in Renton. Travel passes for
the latter event, which features auctions, races, and displays of
horsemanship unrivaled on the West Coast, are available at the
Council Lodge beginning three months prior to opening day.

 

 

SHADOWRUN 273
SEATTLE

The Kingdome is still the home field of many traditional sports
teams, including the baseball Mariners, the football Seahawks, and
the basketball SuperSonics. Recent additions to Seattle's sports
teams include the Timber Wolves Combat Biker team and the
Screamers Urban Brawl team. Information on dates, times, and
tickets is available from the public database.

The Omnidome, under the benevolent ownership of Renraku
Corporation, has expanded to include the Northwest's largest
triscreen theater. Reserving tickets in advance is recommended.

Along with its service as a sports stadium, the Kingdome also
hosts a wide array of popular and classical music programs. The
Summer Jazz Festival, in August, is centered at the Dome, but spills
over throughout the city as well. As in every city, today’s hot clubs
are tomorrow's memories, but it’s true that the ambiance of this
border town draws the steamiest rockers. Seattle is also the home
base of the eccentric, mega-popular Concrete Dreams. C-Dream-
ers, local and imported, haunt the club circuit in hopes of catching
one of the band’s legendary “drop-in” shows. These unscheduled
performances have been Concrete Dreams’ only public appear-
ances in the past six years.

POINTS OF INTEREST

The Space Needle remains the most distinctive element of the
Seattle skyline, and more than ever is worth a visit. The revolving
restaurant at the top, the Eye of the Needle, serves five-star cuisine,
and its regular patrons include the elite of the magically active. Thus,
the sights within are often as spectacular as the view of the city without.

The Aztechnology Pyramid glows on the eastern edge of the
city. The building, modeled after the ancient step-pyramids of old
Mexico's Aztecs, is stunning even when its image is thrust into the
modern age, as when a tilt-wing craft lands on the air-pad of the
flattened peak. Tours are rarely available.

THE BARRENS
—From the introduction to Part Four of Woody Bernstein's
unfinished “Dreamtime Garbage” series, April 5, 2050

The Governor doesn’t want tourists to know it, but all is
not so pleasant in the great metroplex of Everett-Seattle-
Tacoma. The dirty truth is that urban wilderness grows in the
forested Northwest. Yes, Virginia, the same blight that dark-
ens many of the cities of the East flourishes here as well.

The city that brought “skid row” to the world now bids to
bring the Barrens to replace it.

Shantytowns sprawl over abandoned neighborhoods,
creating warrens and mazes of homes of the poor, the
dispossessed, and those shunned by the corporations. These
are the forgotten, the lost, the flesh-and-blood ghosts that
clatter through the shells of man’s dream of urban plenty.

And the tribes—where is their fabled concern for the
Human Condition? They turn these people away from good

274 SHADOWRUN

 

 

The Ork Underground is a prime attraction for adventurous
visitors. Members of the ork community who reside there offer
tours of the small areas of old Seattle on display since the last
century, along with the expanding tunnels and quaint village life of
the inhabitants. A liability waiver is required.

The latest major addition to Seattle's growing business district
is the Renraku Arcology. Even though incomplete, this structure is
overwhelming. It contains private homes for a small town. Its public
mall on the first five levels, the extensive aquarium and algae-
farming facility in the over-the-Sound extension, and the lively Club
Quarter on the north face all offer an unforgettable experience.
Tours of public Renraku facilities depart hourly from the central
information area on Mall 3.

The Salish-Shidhe Council also offers guided tours of
portions of their lands. Weather and other conditions per-
mitting, regularly scheduled runs include the popular tour of
Puget Sound, Tillicum Indian Village, Forest Walks, and
visits to some of the active volcanoes. (A liability waiver
required for the last.) The native guides for these tours are
renowned for their wit and urbanity.

TRIBAL HOLDINGS

The impressive Council Lodge is the only formal presence of
the Salish-Shidhe Council within the Seattle metroplex’s bound-
aries. Modeled after a traditional Salish lodge, but on a massive
scale, this building serves as both an embassy and a cultural center.
Non-tribal visitors are welcome. Tours through the public areas
include superb displays of neotribal artifacts.

Tribals own and operate many other businesses and facilities in
Seattle as well. Such operations are conducted on an individual or
family basis. The Council Lodge maintains a directory of these and
can arrange meetings between interested parties both in the city
and on Council lands.

land that could give them a home, forcing them back in
desperation against the corporate concrete, the sealed build-
ings, and the cutwire barricades. This goes on because it is in
the interests of certain powerful people and organizations.

The Barrens serve as testing grounds, dumps, and secret
meeting places. Out of the city light and away from the
Awakened forests, the concrete rats run with the woodland
jackals. They hide in the shadows of the Barrens to do their
shadowy business. Among these callous folk, the Barrens is
a marketplace to buy and sell humanity.

Meanwhile, the people of the Barrens have become like
animals, seeing ahead only as far as the next meal and safe
place to sleep. Even the cheap vid sets, soy bars, and paper
clothing distributed by corporate relief agencies do little to
offset the real problems.

Come with me now and meet some of them. Inside, they
are people just like us. Come along, and understand....

 
CORPORATE HOLDINGS

Profiles of the many national, international, and extranational
corporations with offices in Seattle are available in the public
database. They include the times, if any, of facility tours. Most
corporations maintain public information desks and displays of their
products at their main offices.

SEATTLE IN THE SHADOWS

Like all big cities, Seattle has its share of crime, both organized
and not. The largest syndicate in the city is a branch of the yakuza,
the Japan-based, international criminal network. Other interna-
tional organizations have insinuated themselves into this city’s
underworld as well, including the Triads and various Tongs. Most
people have heard of the Mafia, but are not aware of the other rough
newcomers, the Seoulpa Rings.

Seattle law enforcement’s biggest concem is the yakuza. The
early part of the century saw these criminals reverting to the cultural
styles of shogun-ruled Japan. Many of their soldiers carry swords, but
they remain constantly open to new techniques, technologies, and
criminal opportunities. Yakuza are usually armed with state-of-the-art
weaponry. The police’s best defense against them is their own
clannishness. Since the yakuza’s retum to its roots, the syndicate has
closed the door to outsiders. The expulsion of their Korean soldiers
may have been a factor in the rise of the Seoulpa Rings.

The yakuza represent an association of gangs that work like
traditional Japanese society, as a web of obligations and expecta-
tions rather than a rigid chain of command. The current oyabun, or
gang lord, of Seattle owes favors to other oyabun, notably those
of San Francisco, Hawaii, and Chiba. He is also obliged to the big
boss, the oyabun of oyabun. Despite this, he does not really
answer to anyone for his actions. He controls his own gang in

 

Seattle, estimated to number several thousand, but has no direct
influence on the numerous other yakuza gangs in the city. It would
seem from this that coordinated actions would be difficult, but the
ordered nature of Japanese society makes it possible for these
gangs to cooperate with frightening efficiency. Consequently, the
yakuza’s infiltration of corporations has given them extensive
combat and data assets.

The Mafia’s organization was once very similar, but their power
base has eroded. The influx of Asians and the Awakened and the
resurgence of Amerindian culture have weakened it, forcing a
reorganization. The Mafia now resembles a single, extranational
corporation often referred to as the Family by members. Though still
a powerful factor, it no longer dominates criminal activity in North
America.

The Seoulpa Rings are modeled on the criminal gangs of late
20th-century Korea, though they are no longer Korean any more
than the Mafia is really Sicilian. Each Ring is small and self-
contained, but draws on acommon cultural pattern of self-reliance,
strong-arm tactics, and blood ties. Having been burned by racial
bigotry in the yakuza, they have opened up rather than retreating
into tiny cells of their own kind, and are the most heterogeneous of
the organized criminal groups. The result is a crossbreed that
resembles an Old West outlaw gang combined with a family
business. A Ring forms around a single influential person, and often
fragments as soon as he or she is removed. Though the Rings lack
the power of the yakuza, they have influence and an ability to inspire
fear disproportionate to their size. Should the Seoulpa Rings ever
consolidate, they could challenge the yakuza's criminal supremacy.

Besides the organized felons, there is also a wild mix of
independents, ranging from data pirates to shadowrunners buzzing
low-altitude smuggling vehicles across Council lands.

 

SHADOWRUN 275
 

Q. Why is FASA Corporation producing a second edition of the
Shadowrun rules?

A. To empty the pockets of their customers.

B. Because everybody's doing it.

C. It seemed like a good idea at the time.

D. All of the above.

E. None of the above.

A. The answer is E, none of the above.

Actually, FASA decided to revise the Shadowmun rules for
several good reasons, all based on feedback from current players.

When Shadowrun was written in 1989, it was created for a
specific audience, one that had at least a few years of experience
gaming with more than one system under their belts. Since its
release, Shadowrun has sold enormously well to a much wider
audience than originally intended. Plenty of experienced gamers
currently enjoy the game and its supplements, but Shadowrun has
also attracted a market of players who have no experience using
rules dealing with high technology or an organic magic system,
much less Shadowrun’s sometimes bizarre blend of the two.

The newer players needed the rules presented in a clearer,
more direct fashion that included more examples. More important,
they needed a more indepth explanation of the whys behind some
of the game systems, in addition to the hows. And last, but not
least, nearly all the players requested a useful, complete index.

We believe this revision of the Shadowrun rules lays out the
game system in a cleaner, more accessible manner. The new
organization and presentation should help players and gamemasters
to learn and understand the rules, and to use the rulebook as a

reference later on. The combat system follows a simple, clear-cut

procedure, so that even gamemasters who have never used any
other game combat system can follow the step-by-step sequence
given here.

The magic section, especially, benefits from additional expla-
nations of the hows and whys of Shadowrun, beyond what dice to
be rolled when. Because magic in Shadowrun works differently
from magic in other gaming systems, knowing the logic behind the
spells and the reasons magic works the way it does will help
gamemasters resolve those incredible situations—unfailingly be-
yond the scope of the rules and often the designers’ dreams—that
players feel driven to create.

The rules also changed to reflect the three additional years of
thought and testing put into the system since its release. Originally
playtested by 20 to 30 players and gamemasters across the

country, Shadowrun has since been exposed to more than 100,000
gamers. A great many of those players have taken the time to let
us know their reactions to the existing rules, especially in the areas
they thought could use some work, and where they thought the
game should go. We carefully considered every criticism and
comment we received, and we listened.

In response to all those letters (sorry for any delays), phone
calls, and face-to-face talks at conventions, we approached the
Shadowrun revision determined to make it a better game, not just
an excuse to sell more books.

The Shadowrun combat system has been reworked to run
faster and cleaner than in the first-edition rules. Gun combat is now
deadly, but the rules also contain a system of balances to allow
gamemasters to adjust the feel of the game to suit their style and
the style of their group. The Combat Turn sequence has been
fleshed out and refined to give players a clearer understanding of
what their characters can and cannot do. Both combat and magic
were adjusted to create an equitable balance of power in the game,
and both provide suggestions allowing the gamemaster to fine-
tune that balance to fit his group.

Most sections in Shadowrun, Second Edition, reflect the
refinements, expansions, revisions, and clarifications that have
appeared in the various Shadowrun sourcebooks. These changes
are also the result of further efforts by the designers and a response
to the feedback of the players.

Ofall the Shadowrun sourcebooks published since the rulebook
was originally released, only the first, The Grimoire, is being
rewritten to conform to the second-edition rules. The following
Sourcebook Updates section provides all the information needed
to bring the rest of the sourcebooks up to date with Shadowrun,:
Second Edition.

Shadowrun, Second Edition contains many of the additional
rules, expansions, and clarifications of the magic system that Paul
Hume wrote for The Grimoire, essentially making that sourcebook
redundant. The Grimoire is being revised to reflect the second-
edition rules, and will also present new rules.

We hope that Shadowrun, Second Edition accomplishes
everything we intended, and more. But some gamemasters and
players may still feel that the changes are not enough, or too much,
or send the game in the wrong direction. Those players are free to
use what they like and to ignore what they don't, and as always, to
change the rules to suit their game. After all, it’s really not how you
play the game that’s important, but that you have fun doing it.

 

276 SHADOWRUN
SOURCEBOOK UPDATES

 


Players already experienced with the Shadowrun game sys-
tem can use the rules and guidelines in this chapter to make material
from previously published sourcebooks compatible with the re-
vised Shadowrun, Second Edition (SRIl) version of the rules. The
following information applies to the Street Samural Catalog, The
Grimoire, Paranormal Animals of North America, London
Sourcebook, Virtual Realities, the Rigger Black Book, Shadowbeat,
and Shadowtech. Most of the information presented in The Grimoire
appears in the second-edition Shadowrun rulebook.

The very last section of this chapter will help gamemasters
modify previously published adventures to be compatible with the
revised basic game rules.

STREET SAMURAI CATALOG

The Equipment Table in this section provides the Damage
Codes for all the weapons in the Street Samurai Catalog (SSC).

“Use the rules listed on p. 103 of SRI for shock weapons in
place of the rules listed with the weapon in the SSC.

-Any special recoil compensation adjustments listed with the
weapon description in SRI are unique to that weapon.

*Use the current SRII Fire Mode rules, p. 92, regardless of item
notations.

‘All weapons now carry reactive triggers as standard equip-
ment (when applicable). This conforms to the revised rules for
actions (1 Simple Action = 1 shot) and does not allow any additional
shots for that weapon.


*Firepower™ ammo (SSC, p. 35), originally provided to bal-
ance the game for heavy pistols, is no longer available. All heavy
pistol Damage Codes have been adjusted accordingly.

*Note that extended clips (SSC, p. 34) have been included with
the weapons in this book.

‘The Ultrasound Sight (SSC, p. 36) halves visibility modifiers
resulting from dim light, darkness, or invisibility.

*Miniguns (SSC, p. 58) fire 15 rounds per Complex Action and
use the heavy weapon recoil rules (SR Il, p. 89)

*Narcoject weapons (SSC, p. 62) use the standard Ranged
Combat rules, instead of the rules listed in SSC. However, roll only
Combat Pool dice against the target number, no Body dice. If the
test succeeds, the target makes a Body Test against the narcoject
toxin to reduce its effect, but Combat Pool dice and armor do not
help in this test.

-APDS ammo (SSC, p. 63) halves the Ballistic Armor Rating and
Barrier Ratings (when firing through, only). Vehicle armor reduces
the Power of APDS ammo by one-half its rating (round down) and
reduces the Damage Level by one level.

“IPE grenades (SSC, p. 66) are no longer applicable.

*Riot security shields no longer provide additional dice (previ-
ously available through the now defunct Dodge Pool). They have a
bashing damage of (STR)L Stun.

*Cyberguns no longer have an Essence Cost. Merry Christmas.

‘Vehicles use game statistics and descriptions from either SRI
or the Rigger Black Book. Information in SRII is considered the
most current.

 

SHADOWRUN 277
SOURCEBOOK UPD S

EQUIPMENT TABLE

WEAPONS

MELEE WEAPONS
Concealability Reach Damage Weight Availability Cost Street
Index
Edged Weapons
Ares Monosword (STR + 3)M 4/24 hrs 1,000¥
Centurion Laser Axe (STR)S : 6/48 hrs 3,500¥
Combat Axe (STR)S ; 3/24hrs 750
Thrusting Point (STR + 2)L NA NA
Survival Knife (STR + 2)L é 3/6 hrs
Clubs
AZ-150 Stun Baton 8S Stun 3/36 hrs
Other
Forearm Snap Blades 7 (STR)M : 4/48 hrs
Improved Hand Blades NA (STR + 2)L 6/72 hrs
Shock Glove 9 7S Stun : 5/48 hrs

PROJECTILE WEAPONS
Concealability Str. Min Damage Weight Availability

Bows
Ranger-X Bow (STR + 4)M 1.5 5/36 hrs 120¥xStr.Min 2
Ranger-X Arrows As bow .08 4/36 hrs 18¥ 1

FIREARMS
Damage Weight Availability

PISTOLS

Hold-Out

Tiffani Self-Defender A(c) SS 4L 3 2/12 hrs
Light

Ares Light Fire 70 16(c) SA 6L 3/12 hrs
Beretta 200ST 26(c) SA/BF* 6L 5/24 hrs
Ceska vz/120 18(c) SA 6L 3/12 hrs
Seco LD-120 22(c) SA 6L : 3/12 hrs
Machine Pistols

Ares Crusader MP A0(c) 6L : 5/36 hrs
Ceska Black Scorpion 35(c) 6L 5/36 hrs
Heavy Pistols

Ares Predator II 15(c) SA 9M 3 4/24 hrs
Browning Ultra-Power 10(c) SA 9M 4/24 hrs
Colt Manhunter 16(c) SA 9M ; 4/24 hrs

*This weapon can fire one (1) burst-fire per action as a Complex Action

 

278 SHADOWRUN
Conceal

SPECIAL WEAPONS
Narcoject Pistol
Narcoject Rifle
Net Gun, Normal

Large
Submachine Guns
Berretta Model 70
Heckler & Koch MP-5TX
Ingram Smartgun
Sandler TMP
SCK Model 100
Steyr AUG-CSL (SMG)*

RIFLES

Sport Rifles

Ruger 100

Steyr AUG-CSL Carbine*
Sniper Rifles
Walther WA-2100
Shotguns

Mossberg CMDT
Mossberg 5M-CMDT
Assault Rifles

Colt M22A2

H&K G12A3z
Samopal vz 88V
Steyr AUG-CSL AR*

LIGHT MACHINE GUNS
Ares MP-LMG

GE Vindicator Minigun

Steyr AUG-CSL LMG* —_

SOURCEBOOK UPDATES

Ammo Mode
5(c) SA
10(c) SA
A(b) SA
A(b) SA

35(c) BF/FA
20(c) SA/BF/FA
32(c) BF/FA
20(c) BF/FA
30(c) SA/BF
A0(c) SA/BF

SA

SA/BF
SA/BF

SA/BF/FA
SA/BF/FA
SA/BF/FA
SA/BF/FA

Belt BF/FA
50(c)

Belt FA
50(c)

40(c) SA/BF/FA

Damage

As toxin
As toxin
Special
Special
6M
6M
7M
6M

7M
6M

7S
7S

8M

Weight

1.5
3.25
4
45

3.19)
3.25
3
3.Z5
4.5
3.5

7.5

15

5.5

Availability Cost Street

600¥
1,700¥

750¥
1,150¥

6/2 days
8/2 days
8/36 hrs
8/36 hrs

900¥
850¥
950¥
500¥
1,000¥
See note

5/3 days
5/36 hrs
4/24 hrs
5/36 hrs
5/36 hrs
10/4 days

3/24 hrs
10/4 days

12/7 days

8/8 days
12/8 days

4/3 days
8/4 days
5/36 hrs
10/4 days

6/5 days

24/14 days

10/4 days

“The entire Steyr AUG-CSL package comes with all listed accessories and costs 4,500¥.

LASER WEAPONS
Ares MP Laser

HEAVY WEAPONS
FN MAG-5 MMG

Stoner-Ares M107

Panther Assault Cannon

20 (Pack) SA

30

2.5 million¥ NA

18/14 days 3,200¥

18/14 days 5,200¥

16/14 days ,200¥

 

SHADOWRUN 279
SOURCEBOOK UPDATES

ROCKET/MISSILES TABLE

Type Intelligence Damage Weight Availability Cost Street Index
Missiles

Surface to Air (SAM) 4 13D 1S 18/21 days 2,500¥ 4

AMMUNITION, per 10 shots
Concealability® Damage Weight Availability** Cost Street Index
APDS 8 see rules as 14/14 days 70¥ 4
*—1 Concealability per extra 10 rounds of ammo
**Belted ammo: add rounds/100 to Availability

FIREARM AND WEAPON ACCESSORIES
Mount _—Concealability Rating Weight Availability Cost

Bow Accessory Mount NA re 2/24 hrs 100¥
Rangefinder Under oh 2/24 hrs

Grenade Link — «A 8/48 hrs 750¥
Recoil Compensators and Gyros
Imp. Gas Vent II Barrel ‘ 2/24 hrs 550¥
Imp. Gas Vent III Barrel ; 2/24 hrs 800¥
Imp. Gas Vent IV Barrel ; 2/24 hrs
Imp. Gyro Mount Under 6/48 hrs 3,500¥
Deluxe Imp. Gyro Mount Under 6/48 hrs 7,800¥
Ultrasound Sight Top . 8/4 days 1,300¥
Ultrasound Goggles NA 3/36 hrs 1,100¥

EXPLOSIVES
Concealablility Damage Weight Availability Cost Street Index
Grenades
6 Special 25 4/48 hrs 40¥ 1
Flash-Pak 12 Special Zz 3/36 hrs 250¥ 1

CLOTHING AND ARMOR

Concealability Ballistic Impact Weight Availability Cost Street Index

Forearm Guards 12 1 sz 5/36 hrs 250¥
Riot Shield, Small _ 2 8/14 days 1,500¥
Riot Shield, Large —_— > 10/14 days 3,200¥
Secure Clothing iz : 1.5 3/36 hrs 450¥
Secure Jacket 9 > 4/36 hrs 850¥
Secure Vest 15 75 3/36 hrs 175¥
Secure Ultra-Vest 14 25 3/36 hrs 350¥
Secure Long Coat 10 2 3/24 hrs 650¥
Form-Fitting Body Armor
Level 1 — FS 3/48 hrs 150¥
Level 2 15 4/48 hrs 250¥
Level 3 12 4/48 hrs 500¥
Security Armor

Light Security NA 12/10 days 7,500¥

Medium Security NA 14/10 days 9,000¥

Heavy Security NA 16/14 days 12,000¥

Security Helmet NA 12/14days 250¥

 

280 SHADOWRUN
SOURCEBOOK UPDATES

CYBERTECH

HEADWARE
Communications
Commiink II
Commiink IV
Commiink VIII
Commiink X
Crypto Circuit HD
Level 1-4
Level 5-7
Level 8-9
Level 10
Scramble Breaker HD
Level 1-4
Level 5-7
Level 10
Ears
Hearing Amplification
Select Sound Filter (Levels 1-5)
Eyes
Vision Magnification
Optical 1
Optical 2
Optical 3
Electronic 1
Electronic 2
Electronic 3
Rangefinder

INTERNALS
Internal Voice Mask
Sense Link

Internal Transmitter
Video Link

Internal Transmitter

BODYWARE

Cyberguns
Hold-Out Pistol
Light Pistol
Machine Pistol
Submachine Gun
Heavy Pistol
Shotgun

Skill Hardwires

Level 1-4

Level 5-8

Level 9-10

Boosted Reflexes

Level 1 a

Level 2 1.25

Level 3 2.8

Level x .2
Level x .25
Level x .3

8/7 days
8/7 days
8/7 days
8/7 days
8/7 days
8/7 days

6/10 days
12/14 days
12/14 days

3/24 hrs
3/24 hrs
3/24 hrs

8,000¥

18,000¥
40,000¥
60,000¥

Level x 10,000¥

Level x 20,000¥

Level x 30,000¥
500,000¥

Level x 20,000¥
Level x 40,000¥
600,000¥

3,500¥
Level x 10,000¥

250¥
650¥
900¥
1,800¥
800¥
1,200¥

Level x 5,000¥
Level x 50,000¥
Level x 500,000¥

15,000¥
40,000¥
90,000¥

Street Index

 

SHADOWRUN 281
SOURCEBOOK UPDATES

THE GRIMOIRE

Most of the revisions, updates, and clarifications of the magic
rules provided in The Grimoire now appear in Shadowrun, Second
Edition. The Grimoire is currently being reworked for release in a
second-edition version. The Grimoire is the only Shadowrun
sourcebook made obsolete by SRII.

The adept rules from The Grimolre appear in SRII.

PARANORMAL ANIMALS OF NORTH
AMERICA

The Shadowrun, Second Edition descriptions of the Powers of
the Awakened supersede those in Paranormal Animals of North
America. Powers that appear only in the Paranormal Animals
sourcebook remain current, except adjust any damage Staging
values to 2 (2 successes increase the Damage Level one level) and
also increase the effective Power of the attack by +1 if the original
Staging was 3, and by +2 if the original Staging was 4. (Original
Staging refers to statistics given in Paranormal Animals.)

CRITTER STATISTICS

The Shadowrun, Second Edition rules give critters slightly
different statistics. These changes primarily affect armor, Initiative
dice, and additional powers. The effects of these changes on critters
from Paranormal Animals are given below.

Additional Powers
The paranormal critters listed below have the new power of
hardened armor (p. 218, SRII).

Armor

The Behemoth has 4 points of hardened armor (per the power,
p. 218, SRI).

The Chimera has 4 points of standard armor.

The Dzoo-Noo-Qua has 4 points of standard armor.

The Gargoyle has 3 points of hardened armor (per the power,
p. 218, SRI).

The Greater Armadillo has 4 points of hardened armor (per the
power, p. 218, SRI).

The Juggernaut has 8 points of hardened armor (per the power,
p.218 SRI).

The Leviathan has 2 points of hardened armor (per the power,
p. 218, SRI).

 

 

Initiative Dice
Except for the critters listed here, the gamemaster is free to
assign other critters from Paranormal Animals 1D6, 2D6, or 3D6
Initiative dice as he sees fit.
The following critters have 2D6 Initiative dice:
Aardwolf
Agropelter
Birdman
Black Annis
Corpselight
Firebird
Gabriel Hound
Gargoyle
Greater Unicom
Greater Wolverine
Hoop Snake
Incubus
Mimic Snake
Piasma
Snow Snake
Stormcrow
Talis Cat (cat form)
Wyvern
The following critters have 3D6 Initiative dice:
Bandersnatch
Deathrattle
Devil Jack Diamond
Hell Hound
Loup-Garou
Mist Lynx
Saber-Tooth Cat
Shadowhound
Talis Cat (nasty form).

LONDON SOURCEBOOK

Adjustments to the druid rules presented in the London
Sourcebook will appear in the second-edition version of The
Grimoire.

VIRTUAL REALITIES

Virtual Realities served as the source for some of the changes
to the Matrix section presented in Shadowrun, Second Edition.
However, the Matrix combat procedure on p. 178 of SRII super-
sedes the cybercombat procedures in Virtual Realities.

The SRIl rule stating that cyberdecks may have unlimited
storage memory (p. 172) is correct.

 

282 SHADOWRUN
SOURCEBOOK UPDATES

MINIMUM SECURITY CODE

Add the following rule to the rules in Virtual Realities. The
highest Security Code of a system or cluster limits the minimum
Security Code that can be present in that system or cluster, as
presented in the Minimum Security Codes Table.

MINIMUM SECURITY CODES

Minimum
Security Code Security Code
Red Green
Orange, Green, or Blue Blue

Highest

All nodes in asystem or cluster with at least one red node must
be at least Security Code Green.

In addition, a system or cluster cannot have a System Rating
lower than one-half (round down) the highest System Rating found
in that system or cluster. If a system contains a node with Security
Rating 8, all other nodes in that system must have at least Security
Rating 4.

Security Code and System Rating restrictions apply equally,
and so a cluster with a maximum Security Rating of Red-6 could not
contain any nodes with a Security Rating of less than Green-3.

RIGGER BLACK BOOK

The Rigger Black Book rules supersede all previous versions,
with the following changes.
‘The Vehicle Combat and Damage rules in Shadowrun, Second
Edition, override the equivalent rules in the Rigger Black Book.
‘Use the Shadowrun, Second Edition pursuit rules p. 105.
-Multiply the Vehicle Armor Ratings listed for the vehicles in
the Rigger Black Book by 3 to make the values compatible with the
SRII rules. Also, divide the armor cost by 3, and multiply the
maximum allowed by 3.
*Remote-Control Gear must be installed in vehicles to be
remote-controlled.
Base Time: | week
Skill: Appropriate Vehicle B/R Skill
Target Number: 4
Parts Cost: 2,500¥ x base Vehicle Body
Equipment Needed: Vehicle Facility
CF: 2
Remote and vehicle control gear is required for rigger opera-
tion. Vehicle control gear costs:
Base Time: | week
Skill: Appropriate Vehicle Repair B/R Skill
Target Number: 4
Parts Cost: 2,800¥
Equipment Needed: Vehicle Repair Facility
CF: 2 (4)*
*Note that this reflects 2 CF for the rigger gear and 2 CF for the
datajack system.
*ECM/ECCM systems described in the Rigger Black Book are
vehicle systems, and not on the same scale as the ECM/ECCS

 

 

systems on p. 184 of SRI. If comparing the two, double the
vehicles’ ECM/ECCM ratiings.

The vehicle control rig prices in SRII supersede those given in
the Rigger Black Book, where it is called rigger control gear.

WEAPON DAMAGE
Adjust the Damage Codes for the vehicle weapons listed in the
Rigger Black Book as follows:

Weapon Damage
Vengeance MMG 9S*
Vanquisher HMG 10S*
Victory Rotary Cannon 18D**
Vigilant Rotary Cannon 20D***

Air-to-Air Missile (AAM) 18D
Air-to-Ground Missile (AGM)
High-Explosive Warhead 20D (-2 per meter burst-
reduction)
18D (-1 per half-meter
burst-reduction)
18D (-7 per meter burst-
reduction)
7.62 cm Rocket 3D per rocket (cumulative)
12.7cm Rocket 7D per rocket (cumulative)
*A minigun-class weapon using those rules, including recoil.
**Uses standard full autofire rules, but with a maximum rate of
fire of 12 rounds per action. Recoil modifier of +2 per round.
***Uses standard full autofire rules, but with a maximum rate
of fire of 12 rounds per action. Recoil modifier of +3 per round.

SHADOWBEAT

Flechette Warhead*

Armor-Piercing Warhead

The information in SRH does not change any information given
in Shadowbeat.

SHADOWTECH

The information in SRI does not change any information given
in ShadowTech.

UPDATING ADVENTURES

Adventures released prior to Shadowrun, Second Edition
have some different notations, particularly for weapons, than were
used in the second-edition rules. When in doubt, gamemasters
should simply use the second-edition rules that most closely apply.
For non-player characters provided in the adventures, recalculate
Threat Ratings based on the SRII rules. Weapon and spell codes
should be translated to their second-edition versions.

For unique weapons and Damage Codes, the following conver-
sion guidelines should be used: Either find a comparable weapon,
item, power, or ability and use that code, or add the first-edition
Staging value (the final part of the first-edition three-digit Damage
Code (e.g. 4M3) to the Power Rating to determine the second-edition
Power Rating. Note that this method is not wholly accurate and
gamemasters should be prepared to adjust the values when needed.

 

SHADOWRUN 283
SHADOWRUN



Od pice
Der iddated co, Meee

TRWET AuLisiO (942.

 
    

ATTRIBUTES

 
  

LIGHT — MODERATE
STUN STUN

Body ____
Quickness REACTION

     
  
  

Strength

east

ntelligence
Willpower INITIATIVE
Essence

(Magic)

     
 

 

LIGHT MODERATE SERIOUS DEADLY
WOUND WOUND WOUND WOUND

PHYSICAL DAMAGE OVERFLOW [__]
DICE POOLS
COMBAT POOL [
poo. L___]

roo L__]
POOL [|

ARMOR/GEAR

        

SPELLS
TYPE RANGE TARGET DURATION DRAIN

SKILLS
RATING

 

   

RATING

 

RATING RATING RATING

 

WEAPONS
TYPE CONCEALABILITY REACH MODE SHORT MEDIUM

 

Permission given to photocopy. SHADOWRUN is a Trademark of FASA Corporation. © 1992 FASA Corporation.
CHARACTER SKETCH CHARACTER NOTES

CONTACTS AND INFORMATION

GAME NOTES/GEAR VEHICLE CYBERDECK

CONDITION CONDITION

TYPE MONITOR TYPE MONITOR

RATING pestrovep> RATING —— aagis
HANDLING —_____ PERSONA ———_.
SPEED ___ HARDENING _._
BODY MEMORY

ARMOR _____ SCS STORAGE ___ tous
SIGNATURE DAMAGE LOAD ____

PILOT ___ yo ____

FIRMPOINTS __ RESPONSE ____._—»- MODERATE>
MODERATE> DAMAGE

HARDPOINTS __.._—ss-s- DAMAGE

LIGHT>
3 ils DAMAGE
RATING/SIZE RATING /SIZE
gOD Wy
EVASION ys
MASKING — yl

SENSORS yr

 

Permission given to photocopy.
ATTRIBUTES
RATING
Body __

Quickness ___ REACTION

Strength —__

, oe a=

ntelligence __
Willpower __ INITIATIVE
Essence ___
(Magic) __

ATTRIBUTES
Body RATING
Quickness ___ REACTION
Strength ——
chertena =
ntelligence __
Willbower __ INITIATIVE
Essence ___
(Magic) __

ATTRIBUTES
RATING

cileanen ____ REACTION
Strength __
Charisma __
Intelligence __
Willpower ——
Essence __
(Magic) __

INITIATIVE

ATTRIBUTES
RATING

REACTION

Body __
Quickness ___

Strength —_
Charisma ere

Intelligence __
Willpower ——
Essence ___
(Magic) __

INITIATIVE

ATTRIBUTES
RATING

B

a REACTION
Strength _—
Charisma ——
Intelligence __
Willpower ——
Essence __
(Magic) __

INITIATIVE

CONDITION MONITOR

LIGHT — MODERATE SERIOUS
STUN STUN STUN

STUN

PHYSICAL

LIGHT MODERATE SERIOUS
WOUND WOUND WOUND

PHYSICAL DAMAGE OVERFLOW L__]

CONDITION MONITOR

LIGHT — MODERATE ae DEADLY
STUN STUN STUN

su fet bet T_ket 111]

PHYSICAL

LIGHT MODERATE SERIOUS DEADLY
WOUND WOUND WOUND. WOUND

PHYSICAL DAMAGE OVERFLOW L__]

CONDITION MONITOR

LIGHT — MODERATE SERIOUS DEADLY
STUN STUN STUN STUN

1 IN#
sun fil Bet | Bel LL de

PHYSICAL

LIGHT MODERATE SERIOUS DEADLY
WOUND WOUND WOUND WOUND.

PHYSICAL DAMAGE OVERFLOW [____]

CONDITION MONITOR

LIGHT — MODERATE SERIOUS
STUN STUN STUN

STUN

PHYSICAL

LIGHT MODERATE SERIOUS
WOUND WOUND WOUND

PHYSICAL DAMAGE OVERFLOW [___]

CONDITION MONITOR

LIGHT — MODERATE SERIOUS
STUN STUN STUN

1 TN# 2 ‘3 TNA
sun Hm fed | sed | | le]

PHYSICAL

LIGHT MODERATE SERIOUS DEADLY
WOUND WOUND WOUND WOUND

PHYSICAL DAMAGE OVERFLOW L__]

Permission given to photocopy.

WEAPONS / SPELLS / NOTES

WEAPONS / SPELLS / NOTES

WEAPONS / SPELLS / NOTES

WEAPONS / SPELLS / NOTES

WEAPONS / SPELLS / NOTES

 
CONDITION
MONITOR

PROGRAM
CRASH>

MODERATE>
DAMAGE

UGHT>
DAMAGE

NOTES

CONDITION
MONITOR

SERIOUS>
DAMAGE
MODERATE>
DAMAGE

UGHT>
DAMAGE

NOTES

VEHICLE
CONDITION

MONITOR

DESTROYED>

NOTES

Permission given to photocopy.

CONDITION
MONITOR

CRASH>

NOTES

CONDITION
MONITOR

PROGRAM
CRASH>

VEHICLE
CONDITION

MONITOR

DESTROYED>

NOTES

NOTES

CONDITION CONDITION
MONITOR MONITOR

PROGRAM PROGRAM
CRASH> CRASH>

NOTES

CONDITION CONDITION
MONITOR MONITOR

PROGRAM
POR CRASH>

SERIOUS>
DAMAGE

MODERATE>
DAMAGE

UGHT>
DAMAGE

NOTES

VEHICLE
CONDITION CONDITION

MONITOR MONITOR

DESTROYED> DESTROYED>

NOTES

 
—A—

Actions 81
Complex Actions 82
Descriptions 82
Critters 85
Dedaring 78
Delaying (Optional) 80
Free Actions 80, 81
Descriptions 81
Matrix 178
Multiple 79
Resolving 78
Sequence 78
Simple Actions 81
Descriptions 81
Taking Actions 78
Active Skills. See Skills
Adepts 124
Character Creation 45
Magical 124
Shamanic 124
Physical 125
Abilities 125
and the Magic Attribute 126
Aiming 90
Called Shots 92
Allergies. See Critters: Weaknesses
Ammunition 93
Explosive Rounds 93
and Barriers 93
and Misfires 95
Flechette Rounds
and Barriers 93
and Dermal Armor 93
Gel Rounds 92, 95
Archetypes
Bodyguard 49
Combat Mage 50
Decker 51
Detective 52
Dwarf Mercenary 53
Former Company Man 55
Former Wage Mage 56
Gang Member 57
Mercenary 58
Rigger 59
Shaman 60
Street Mage 61
Street Samurai 62
Street Shaman 63

INDEX

Damage 147
Initiative 147

Magical Creatures. See also Critters
Magical Items (Foci) 148
Resolving 147
Ritual Teams 148
Skill Use 147
Spirits
Astral Form 142
Spells 148
Weapon Fod 138

Critters 86

Dice Pools 84

General Description 76

Matrix 163

Melee Combat 100

Ranged Combat 87

Surprise 86

Vehides 104
Combat Pool. See Dice Pools
Combat Skills. See Skills
Combat Spells. See Spells
Combat Tum

Astral Perception. See Astral Space
Astral Projection. See Astral Space
Astral Space 145
Astral Perception 145
Astral Examination 146
Astral Projection 146
Astral Movement 146
Attributes 146
Effects 146
Astral Tracking 149
Attacking Through a Focus 139
Description 145
Fod 145
Spell Locks 138
Spells 149
Astral Tracking
Spell Locks 138
Attributes 42
Astral 146
Character Creation 45
Definitions 42
Racial Maximums 43
Ratings 42

—B—

Banishing. See Conjuring
Barriers 98
and Flechette Ammo 93
Breaking Through 98
Effect Table 98
Firing Through 98
Magical 147
Rating Table 98
Body. See Attributes
Body Parts. See Healing
Bodyguard. See Archetypes

Build and Repair Skills. See Skills

Combat Phases 76

Length 76

Sequence 78. See also Initiative
Astral Initiative 147
Beginning a New Combat Tum 78
Combat Phases 79
Dediaring Actions 78
Delaying Actions (Optional) 80
Determining Initiative 78
Dice Pools 84
Dice Pools Refreshing 78
Initiative 79
Initiative Ties 79
Interception 83
Matrix Initiative 178
Movement 83
Multiple Actions 79
Resolving Actions 78
Spell Defense Dice 132
Spirit Initiative 142
Taking Actions 78

Surprise 86
Perception 185

Computer Systems

Alerts 168

Active 168

Corporate Decker Response 168

Passive 168, 169, 170
Mapping 168

Quick Generation System 192
Nodes

Connectivity (Table) 167

CPU (Central Processing Unit) 166

DS (Datastore) 166

I/OP (Input/Output Port) 166

SAN (System Access Node) 163,

166, 167

SN (Slave Node) 167

SPU (Sub-Processor Unit) 167

Tribesman 64 C System Operations 168
Armor Called St Security Ratings 165
Astral Combat 147 Melee Combat 103 Breaking (Table) 165
Melee Combat 100, 102 R 1 Combat 92 Security Codes 165
Ranged Combat 87, 91 Chari See Attri System Ratings 165
Astral Combat 147. See also Astral Space; Typical (Table) 169

Combat. See also Astral Combat; Combat

Spirits , . .
F | Evasi 149 Tum; Matrix Combat; Melee Combat;

Astral Perception 145, 146
Attacking Through a Focus 139
Barriers 147

Concentrations. See Skills
R iC Concentrations and Specializations 70. See
oat also Skills

Aol Conv 147 . ; -
Comins Tum Sequence Condition Monitor 33

 

SHADOWRUN 289
Physical Damage Track 33
Stun Damage Track 33
Conjuring 139
Banishing 143
Procedure 143
Commanding an Uncontrolled
Spirit 143
Control Contests 143
Elementals 140
Aid Sorcery 141
Aid Study 141
Physical Service 141
Remote Service 142
Spell Sustaining 142
Summoning 140
Limits in Character Creation 45
Nature Spirits
Domains 140
Drain 140
Services 140
Summoning 139, 140
Skill
In Spirit Combat 143
Spirit Fod 137
Spirit Forms 142
Contacts 200. See also Legwork
Character Creation 43
Control Pool. See Dice Pools
Vehicle Tum Allocation 105
Creating a Character 40
Lifestyles 189
Buying a Lifestyle 190
Magidans 118
Optional Rules
Allergies 46
More Metahumans 46
Priorities 44
Race 40, 44
Resources 46
Money 46
Starting Money 47
Starting Spells 46, 133
Starting Karma 47
Critters 214
Actions 85
Combat 85
Combat Skills 86
Cyberware 220
Descriptions 221
Banshee 221
Barghest 221
Basilisk 221
Cockatrice 222
Dracoforms 222
Elemental Spirits 224
Eyekiller 224
Ghosts 224
Ghouls 225
Griffins 226
Harpy 226
Kraken 227

Leshy 227

INDEX

Merrow 227
Naga 228
Nature Spirits 228
Phoenix 229
Sasquatch 230
Shapeshifters 230
Thunderbird 231
Unicom 231
Vampire 231
Wendigo 232
Dice Pools 86
Initiative 85
Powers 214
Accident 214
Alienation 216
Animal Control 216
Binding 217
Compulsion 217
Concealment 217
Confusion 217
Effects of Weapon Foci 138
Electrical Projection 217
Engulf 217
Enhanced Physical Attributes 217
Enhanced Senses 217
Essence Drain 217
Fear 218
Flame 218
Flame Aura 218
Guard 218
Hardened Armor 218
Immunity to Age 218
Immunity To Normal Weapons 218
Immunity To Pathogens 218
Immunity To Poisons 218
In Opposition 214
Infection 218
Influence 218
Magical Guard 219
Manifestation 219
Mist Form 219
Movement 219
Noxious Breath 219
Paralyzing Touch (How) 219
Pestilence 219
Petrifying Gaze 219
Psychokinesis 219
Regeneration 219
Search 219
Venom 219
Statistics 232
Table Key 232
Variations (Table) 232
Threat Ratings 86
Weaknesses 220
Allergies. See Critters: Weaknesses
Allergy 220
Essence Loss 220
Reduced Senses 220
Vulnerability 220

Cyberdecks 172. See also Matrix Combat:

Programs

Active Memory 172
Hardening 172
I/O (Input/Output) Speed 173
Load Speed 172
Options 173
Hitcher Jacks 173
Response Increase 173
Vidscreen Display 173
Storage Memory 172
Use of 173
Cyberware
Bodyware 248
Character Creation 42, 43
Critter 220
Descriptions 246
Headware 246
Intemal Heacware 247
Replacement Surgery 114

—D—

Damage 110. See also Healing
Applying Damage 111
Astral 147
Black IC 171
Condition Levels 112
Damage Codes 110

Damage Level 110

Power 110

Staging 91, 110
Damage Level Table 111
Damage Modifiers 112
Diseases and Toxins 186
Exceeding the Condition Monitor 111
Injury Modifiers 90
Matrix Combat 179
MPCP (Cyberdeck) 172
Physical Damage 110
Spells 151
Stun Damage 110

Damage Code 33, 110
Damage Level 33
Power 33
Staging 91

Decker. See Archetypes

Decking 177. See also Matrix Combat;

Programs
Hacking Pool 85
Movement in the Matrix 177
Perception 177
Contact Range 177, 179
Declaring Range In Combat 178
Observation Range 177
Sensor Range 177, 178
Tortoises 177
Demolitions 97
Dermal Armor. See also Cyberware:
Bodyware
and Flechette Ammo 93

Detection Spells. See Spells

Detective. See Archetypes

Dice Pools 32, 84

 

290 SHADOWRUN
Allocation of Dice 84
Combat Pool 84
Control Pool 85
Citter 86

Delayed Actions 84
Hacking Pool 85

Karma Pool. See Gamemastering:

Karma
Magic Pool 85
Power Foci 138
Spell Defense 132
Refreshing 78, 84
Delayed Actions 80
Diseases and Toxins
Fugu-5 186
Narcojet 186
Neuro-Stun VIII 186
VITAS-3 186
Drain 33. See also Spelicasting
Drain Code 33
Drain Level 33
Force Rating 33
Dual Beings. See also Spirits
Dwarf 36
Character Creation 42, 45
Dwarf Mercenary. See Archetypes

——-—

Elementals. See Conjuring
Elf 36
Character Creation 42, 45
Equipment. See Gear
Essence 42. See also Attributes
Astral Projection 146
and the Magic Attribute 42, 45
Character Creation 45
Elven Decker. See Archetypes
Explosive Rounds. See Ammunition
Explosives. See also Grenades
Demolitions 97

—f—

Firearms 92
Ammunition 93
Fire Mode 92
Burst Fire 92
Full-Auto 92
Semi-Automatic 92
Short Bursts 92
Single-Shot 92
Fire Mode (Table) 92
Multiple Targets
Burst-Fire Mode 92
Full-Autofire 92, 93
Semi-Automatic Mode 92
Reloading 95
Shotguns 95
Stray Shots (Optional) 93
Two guns 90
Flechette Rounds. See Ammunition
Fod 137

INDEX

Astral Tracking 138
Attacking Through a Focus 139
Availability 137
Bonding 137
Cost Table 137
In Astral Combat 148
In Astral Space 145
Power Foci 138
Specific Spell Fod’ 137
Spell Category Foci 137
Spell Foci 137
Spell Locks 138
Spirit Fod 137
Using aFocus 137
Weapon Fod 138
Force Points. See Creating A Character:
Spells
Former Company Man. See Archetypes
Former Wage Mage. See Archetypes

—G—

Gamemastering 180. Seealso
Gear; Perception
Adjusting Game Lethality 194
Diseases and Toxins 186
Fencing the Loot 188
Financing the Fence 188
Finding A Fence 188
Husting It Along 188
The Loot 188
The Meet 188
Hauling The Load 185
Karma 190
Awarding 199
Good Karma 190
Improving Skills 190
Karma Pool 191
Reputation 199
Team Karma 191
Lifestyles 189
Buying a Lifestyle 190
Matrix
Base Security Rating 192
Installing Data Values 193
Installing IC 193
Mapping 192
Security Classifications 192
System Architecture 192
Non-Player Characters 187
Professional Ratings 187
Threat Ratings 187
Techniques and Tips 195
Using Build/Repair Skills 182
Build/Repair Table 183
Using Knowledge Skills 183
Knowledge Skill Table 183
Using Language Skills 184
Language Skills Table 184
Using Social Skills 180
Racism and Charisma 182
Social Skills Table 182

Vehicle Operation Skill 183
Vehicle Operation Table 183
Gang Member. See Archetypes
Gear 236
Ammunition 241
Armor 242
Availability 184
Biotech 249
Slap Patches 250
Character Creation 43, 46
Concealability 185
Cyberdecks and Programs. See
Cyberdecks, and Programs
Cyberware 246
Bodyware 248
Headware 246
Intemal Headware 247
Explosives 241
Firearm Accessories 240
Firearms 238
Heavy Weapons 239
Pistols 238
Rifles 239
Submachine Guns (SMGs) 238
Taser Weapons 239
Impact Projectile Weapons 238
Lifestyle
Electronics 245
Entertainment 244

Magical Equipment. See Magic, and
Foci

Personal Weapons 236
Rigger Gear 253
Surveillance and Security 242
Communications 242
Security Devices 243
Surveillance Countermeasures 243
Surveillance Measures 243
Vision Enhancers 242
Survival Gear 244
Using Equipment 184
Vehicle Weapons 253
Vehicles 251
Aircraft 252
Boats 251
Drones 253
Ground 251
Military and Restricted 252
Security 252
Vectored Thrust 253
Working Gear 244
Gel (Stun) Rounds. See Ammunition
Grenade Launchers. See also Ranged
Combat
Minimum Range 97
Grenades 96. See also Barriers
Blast Effects 97
Against Barriers 97
In a Confined Space 97
Damage Table 97
Scatter 97
Grid. See Matrix

 

SHADOWRUN 291
Gyro-Stabilization. See Recoil
—H—

Hacking Pool. See Dice Pools
Healing 110, 112. SeealsoDamage
Body Parts 114
Cyberware 114
Deadly Wounds and Permanent
Damage 113
Doctoring 113
Medical Costs 113
Elective Surgery 114
First Aid 115
Deadly Wounds 115
Trauma Patches 115
Magical Healing 115, 155
Magicians and Damage 115

Physical Damage 112
Wound Table 112
Pieces and Parts 114
Slap Patches 250
Stages of Healing 113
Stun Damage 112

Health Spells. See Spells
Hermetic Libraries 124
Human 37

Character Creation 42

—j—

IC. See Intrusion Countermeasures
Illusion Spells. See Spells
Image Magnification. See also Range
Initiative 79
Astral 147
Base Dice 79
Calculation 79
Gritter 85
Determining 78
Matrix 79, 178
Cyberdeck Response Increase 173
Multiple Actions 79
Reaction 79
Spirits 142
Ties 79, 80
Total 79
When Rigging 79
Insect Totems 123
Intelligence. See Attributes
Interception. See Movement: Interception
Intrusion Countermeasures 163, 169
Black IC 171
Hanging Tough 171
Jacking Out 171

Gray IC 170
Blaster 170

Killer 171
Tar Baby 171
Tar Pit 171
Trace (all types) 171
Triggering 170
IC Resistance Test 179

 

292 SHADOWRUN

INDEX

Persona Identification Procedure 169
White IC 169

Access 170

Barrier 170

Jamming 169

Scramble 170

=

Karma 33. SeeGamemastering

Knockback and Knockdown
Melee Combat 103

Knowledge Skills. See Skills

maa ao

Languages 74

Laser Sights 90

Leaming a New Spell. See Sorcery

Legwork 200

Lifestyles. See Gamemastering. See also
Creating a Character

—M—

Mages
Conjuring 139
Elementals 140. SeeConjuring
Hermetic 123
Hermetic Fetishes 133
Hermetic Libraries 124

Sorcery 127

The Hermetic Circle 124
Magic 33, 116

Adepts 124

and Essence 42, 45

Barriers 147

Character Creation 45

Conjuring 139

Fod 137

Hermetic 33, 123

Magic Pool 85

Magical Healing 115

Magicians and Damage 115

Nature Spirits 123

Ritual Sorcery 133

Shamanic 33, 118, 124

Sorcery 127

Spell Defense Dice 132

Spells 127

Vehicles 108

Combat Spells 109
Damaging Manipulations 109
Magic (Attribute) 116. See also Attributes
Physical Adepts 126
Magic Pool. See Dice Pools
Magical Skills. See Skills
Magical Wards
Medicine Lodge 123
The Hermetic Cirde 124
Magicians
Adepts. See Adepts
Character Creation 118

Hermetic. See Mages
Shamanic. See Shamans
Manipulation Spells. See Spells
Master Persona Control Program
(MPCP) 172. See also Cyberdecks;
Programs
Matrix 33, 160. See alsoComputer
Systems; Matrix Combat
Access 162
Appearance 162
Entrance 162
LTG 162
Finding 165
Private Ownership 169
Mapping 169
RTG (Regional Telecomm Grid) 163
Matrix Combat 163, 178. See also
Computer Systems; Decking; Matrix
Avoiding Combat 179
Corporate Deckers 168
Decking
Jacking Out 165, 171
Doing Damage 179
Procedure 178
Contact Range 179
Declaring Range 178
Determining Results 179
Executing a Masking Utility 179
Execution Tests 178. See also
Programs; Utilities
IC Resistance Test 179
Persona vs Persona 179
Running Sensor Utilities 178
Sensor Range 178
Using a Combat Utility 179
Melee Combat 100
Combat Pool 84
Monofiliment Whips 103
Resolution 100
Called Shots 103
Comparing Successes 102
Damage Resistance Test 102
Defender's Test 102
Determining Damage 102
Full Defense 103
Knockback and Knockdown 103
Modifiers 101
Multiple Opponents 102
Multiple Targets 102
Subduing 103
Resolution
Attackers Test 101
Shock Weapons 103
Spirits
Manifest Form 142
Weapon Fod 138
Weapons 100
Mercenary. See Archetypes
Metahumanity 34
Character Creation (Optional Rule) 46
Missile Launcher
Damage 99
Missile Launchers 99

Damage 99

Scatter 99. See also Grenades
Monofilament Whip 103
Movement

Astral 146

Astral Projection

Astral Evasion 149

Interception 83

Modifiers 90

Walking and Running 83
Multiple Targets 90

—N—

Nature Spirits 123. SeeConjuring; Spirits
Non-Player Characters. See
Gamemastering

anion

Ork 37
Character Creation 42, 45

—p—

Paranormal Animals. See Critters
Perception 185
Concealability 185
Noticing Spelicasting 132
Perception Success Table 186
Test Modifiers (Table) 185
Physical Skills. See Skills: Active Skills
Programs 174. See Matrix Combat. See
also Cyberdecks; Matrix Combat
Combat Utilities 175
Attack 175
Slow 175
Defense Utilities 175
Medic 175
Mirror 175
Shield 175
Smoke 175
Masking Utilities 176
Deception 176
Relocate 176
Persona Programs 174
Bod 174
Evasion 174
Masking 174
Ratings 174
Sensor 174
Sensor Utilities 175, 178
Analyze 176
Browse 176
Decrypt 176
Evaluate 176
Sleaze 177
Utility Programs 174

Degrading 174
Execution 174-176, 178, 179

Running and Using 174
Projectile Weapons 96

Character Creation 45
Range. See Ranged Combat
Image Modification Systems 88
Minimum Ranges 88
Ranged Combat 87
Called Shots 92
Combat Pool 84
Modifiers 89
Modifiers (Table) 89
Multiple Targets
Burst-Fire 92
Semi-Automatic Fire 92
Resolution 87
Applying Damage 87, 91
Attacker's Success Test 87, 90
Base Target Number 87
Defender's Damage Resistance
Test 87, 90
Minimum Ranges 88
Range 87
Ranged Combat Modifiers (Table) 89
Results 87, 91
Situational Combat Modifiers 87
Situational Target Modifiers 88
Visibility 89
Spirits
Manifest Form 142
Stopping and Knockdown 91
Stray Shots (Optional) 93
Reaction. See Attributes
Calculation 45
Recoil 89
Compensation Modifiers 90
Gyro-Stabilization 90
Reloading Firearms 95
Rigger. See Archetypes
Riggers
Control Pool 85
Initiative 104, 106
Rigger Gear 253
Vehide Control Rigs 104, 249
Ritual Sorcery 133
Astral Guiding 135
Drain 136
Material Link 135
Table 136
Preparation 135
Procedure 135
Determining The Effect 135, 136
Drain 136
Forming the Material Link 135
Preparing for a Sending 135
Resisting Drain 135
The Sending 136
Ritual Teams 135

In Astral Combat 148
Sustaining 136
The Effect 136
The Sending 135, 136
Astral Perception 145
Noticing 136
Tracking Back 136
Rule Of One 32
Rule Of Six 32

=— =

Scatter 97

Shaman. See Archetypes
Shamanism. See Shamans

Shamans
Abilities 123
Conjuring 139

Medicine Lodge 123
Nature Spirits 123. See also Conjuring
Roleplaying 123
Shamanic Fetishes 133
Sorcery 127
Totems 119
Tradition 118
Shock Weapons 103
Shotguns 95
Skills 66, 73. See also Success Tests
Combat Skills 70
Magical Skills 7 1

Physical Skills 71
Sodial Skills 72, 180
Racism and Charisma 182
Social Skills Table) 182
Use with Availability 184
Use with Legwork 200
Technical Skills 71
Vehicle Skills 72, 183
Vehicle Operation Table 183
Base Time 68
Build and Repair 73, 182
Build/Repair Table 183
Kits, Shops, and Facilities 244
Character Creation 43, 45
Critter Combat Skills 86
Knowledge Skills 183
Knowledge Skill Table 183
Language Skills 74, 184
Language Skills Table 184
Master Skill Table 75
Ratings 66
Special Skills 45, 74
The Skill Web 68
Using The Skill Web 68
Smart Goggies 90
Smartlink 90
Social Skills. See Skills
Sorcery 127. See also Magic
Leaming a New Spell 132
Limits in Character Creation 45
Special Skills. See Skills
Spedializations. See Skills

 

SHADOWRUN 293
Spell Resistance Test. See Spelicasting
Spell Success Test. See Spelicasting
Spelicasting. See also Ritual Sorcery
Damage 151
Drain 33, 128, 151
Duration 128, 142,151
Elemental Aid Sorcery 141
Exdusivity 128
Force Rating 33, 128
In Astral Space 148
Magic Pool 85
Multiple Targets 129
Notidng 132
Object Resistance Table 130
Procedure 129
Against Inanimate Objects 130
Area-Effect Spells 130
Determining the Result 131
Drain Resistance Test 132
Situational Modifiers 130
Spell Resistance Test 131
Spell Success Test 131
Spell Target Numbers 130
Targeting 130
Range 128, 151
Spell Defense Dice 132
Spell Stacking 129
Target Number 151
Using A Focus 137
Spells. See also Spelicasting
and Astral Space 149
Character Creation 43
Force Points 46
Starting Spells 133
Combat Spells 151
Damage 151
Detection Spells 152
Drain 151
Duration 128, 142, 151
Health Spells 127, 154
Illusion Spells 127, 155
In Astral Combat 148
Leaming a New Spell 132
Elementals (Aid Study) 141
Hermetic Fetishes 133
Restricted Use Spells 133
Shamanic Fetishes 133
Manipulation Spells 127, 156
Control Manipulations 156
Telekinetic Manipulations 157
Transformation Manipulations 158
Range 151
Spell Directory 151
Spell Fod 137
Target 151
Types 127
Combat 127
Detection 127
Health 127
Illusion 127
Mana 127

Physical 127

 

294 SHADOWRUN

INDEX

Spirit Combat. See Spirits
Spirits
Commanding an Uncontrolled
Spirit 143
Control Contests 143
Dual Beings 148
Elementals 140
Aid Sorcery 141
Aid Study 141
Description of Types 224
Physical Service 141
Remote Service 142
Services 140
Spell Sustaining 142
Statistics 144
Summoning 140
Nature Spirits 123
Description of Types 228
Domains 140
Services 140
Statistics 144
Summoning 139
Spirit Combat 143
Spirit Forms 142
Astral Form 142
Manifest Form 142, 219
Statistics 144
Stopping and Knockdown
Ranged Combat 91
Street Mage. See Archetypes
Street Samurai. See Archetypes
Street Shaman. See Archetypes
Strength. See Attributes. See also
Gamemastering: Hauling The Load
Success Test 32
Automatic Failure or Success 32
In General 30
Modifiers 32
Opposed Tests 68
Rule Of One 32
Rule Of Six 32
Skills 66
Standard Tests 68
Surprise 86

—j—

Target Numbers. See also Success Tests: In
General
Base
Ranged Combat 87
Ranged Combat 88
Modifiers (Table) 89
Situational Target Modifiers
Ranged Combat 87
Skill Success Tests 68
Spells 130, 151
Technical Skills. See Skills: Active Skills
The Skill Web. See Skills
Threat Ratings
Critters 86
Non-Player Characters 187
Throwing Weapons 96

Totems 119. See alsoShamans
Choosing 119
Descriptions of 120

Trauma Patches. See Healing

Tribesman. See Archetypes

Troll 38
Character Creation 42, 45

—Vv—

Vehicle Combat 104, 105
Breaking Windows 108
Combat Spells 109
Crash Test 107
Damaging Manipulation Spells 109
Hitting Walls 109
Ramming 107
Relative Distances 106
Resolution

Actions and Commands 104

Control Pool Dice 105

EscapeTest 105, 107

Initiative 104, 105, 106

Position Test 105

Resolving Actions 105, 106

Terrain 105

The Vehide Combat Tum 105

Vehicle Damage 109
Shooting at Moving Targets 108
Terrain

And Airbome Vehicles 106
Vehicles, Weapons, and Magic 108

Vehicle Control Rigs 104

Vehicle Ratings 104

Vehicle Skills. See Skills

Vehicles. See also Vehicle Combat
Descriptions 251

Aircraft 252

Boats 251

Drones 253

Ground 251

Military and Restricted 252

Security 252

Vectored Thrust 253
Vehicle Combat 104
Vehicle Control Rigs 104
Vehide Damage 109

Modifiers 110
Vehicle Ratings 104

Armor 104

Autopilot 104

Body 104

Handling 104

Signature 104

Speed 104
Vehicle Weapons 253
Vehicles, Weapons, and Magic 108

Visibility 89

—w—

Willpower. See Attributes
SHADOWRUN

   

 

SHADOWRUN 295
 
SEATTLE DISTRICT
BOUNDARIES

ALGONKIAN-MANITOU
COUNCIL
Ft. Albanye
a d ve
: boke SC
; Supertor
‘ Sault Ste. Marie
—< Duluthe
aor Ottawa
Kingstone
St. Paul
Minneapolisee Torontoe | Ontarie
} Buffalo
Sioux False e Lansing e
Milwaukee Detroite |
cieee® Chicago” cory
Omaha e
Indianapolis
a “ye Cincinnati ny
Topekae ° arleston,
SF Lug East a , Norfol Atianth
oo *Louisvile = A_p*~ Roanoke . wall,
Wichita : aie Sane me Ocean
aSeat ao Durhame , : 5
a Raleigh © ~
ie > eChariotte /
Amarillo ‘ ais Memphis Columbo __ 7 Wlimington
oe Littie bs f
Rock Birmingham — Oatianta 4
2 _* Charleston
CONFEDERATED AMERICAN STATES (C.A.S,)
Ft. Worthee 2! - Montgomery ’ Savannat
eShreveport $ i
eAlbany {
Se wer oe
3 se l
ee eas See North America
'Pachic e ee 4 | te \
- New Orleans,” Lt
Cbaan oe =< \ Otanddo @ National Capital
oe a : > : e
|<eTompa West Paim Beach ee
f International Boundary
=| State Boundary
‘ (U.S.A. circa 1990)
Fe aul oF Kilometers
i eMexica,. 200 400 600
ee 200 400

  

Miles

   

Delicatessen
opyrignt MMIII

   

1026 w Van en tnoaae UCAS S12 Body Co Cc

 
SEATTLE AND THE PACIFIC
NORTHWEST

eu me
NATION

Tribal Border
National Border

PORTLAND


SALISH
wi SHIDHE
COUNCIL

sinsearach
some say Awakened.

Magic has returned to the world, and elves,
dwarfs, orks, and trolls have assumed theif true
forms. Creatures of the wild have changéd as
well, becoming things of myth and legend. And
technology has changed people, tod. No longer
mere flesh, many humans have turned to
artificial enhancements called ¢yberware, and
become more than human. Modern man is
stronger, smarter, and faster.

In the world of 2053, when the
megacorporations want something done but
don't want to dirty their hands, it's a shadowrun
they need, and you they come to. Though your
existence is not listed in any governmental or
corporate database, the demand for your
services is high. You might be a decker, sliding
through the visualized databases of giant
corporations, spiriting away the only thing of
real value—information. Or perhaps you are a
street samurai, an enforcer whose combat skills
make you the ultimate urban predator. Or
perhaps a magician with the ability to wield the
magical energies that surround the Earth.

And that's exactly the kind of firepower you'll
need to make a shadowrun...

Shadowrun, Second Edition updates,
OV ioc Perna orden aCM inom slo e CME Col arti
game system. This new edition is fully
compatible with most existing Shadowrun
sourcebooks, adventures, and characters.

| | | 52500
IMUM | | | |
781555"601805
Shadowrun is a Trademark of FASA Corporation.

OMRON AT Mec in one nats ISBN 1-55560-180-4 25.00

reserved. Printed in the U.S. of A.
